
Abstract for pubmed ID 10023937
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10023943
In patients with heart failure, beta-blockade has improved morbidity and left-ventricular function, but the impact on survival is uncertain. We investigated the efficacy of bisoprolol, a beta1 selective adrenoceptor blocker in decreasing all-cause mortality in chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10024334
Angiotensin type 1 receptor antagonists have direct effects on the autonomic nervous system and myocardium. Because of this, we hypothesized that irbesartan would reduce QT dispersion to a greater degree than amlodipine, a highly selective vasodilator. To test this, we gathered electrocardiographic (ECG) data from a multinational, multicenter, randomized, double-blind parallel group study that compared the antihypertensive efficacy of irbesartan and amlodipine in elderly subjects with mild to moderate hypertension. Subjects were treated for 6 months with either drug. Hydrochlorothiazide and atenolol were added after 12 weeks if blood pressure (BP) remained uncontrolled. ECGs were obtained before randomization and at 6 months. A total of 188 subjects (118 with baseline ECGs) were randomized. We analyzed 104 subjects who had complete ECGs at baseline and after 6 months of treatment. Baseline characteristics between treatments were similar, apart from a slight imbalance in diastolic BP (irbesartan [n=53] versus amlodipine [n=51], 99.2 [SD 3. 6] versus 100.8 [3.8] mm Hg; P=0.03). There were no significant differences in BP normalization (diastolic BP <90 mm Hg) between treatments at 6 months (irbesartan versus amlodipine, 80% versus 88%; P=0.378). We found a significant reduction in QT indexes in the irbesartan group (QTc dispersion mean, -11.4 [34.5] milliseconds, P=0.02; QTc max, -12.8 [35.5] milliseconds, P=0.01), and QTc dispersion did not correlate with the change in BP. The reduction in QT indexes with amlodipine (QTc dispersion, -9.7 [35.4] milliseconds, P=0.06; QTc max, -8.6 [33.2] milliseconds, P=0.07) did not quite reach statistical significance, but there was a correlation between the change in QT indexes and changes in systolic BP. In conclusion, irbesartan improved QT dispersion, and this effect may be important in preventing sudden cardiac death in at-risk hypertensive subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10025200
This article presents the results of a retrospective analysis of the use of beta-blockers and current dosing of these agents in patients with coronary artery disease. While 70 to 78% of patients admitted to Norwegian university hospitals during 1990-1997 for angiographic evaluation of chest pain used beta-blockers, only 43-60% of patients with stable coronary artery disease enrolled in the 4S study in Norway received such treatment. High risk groups such as diabetics and patients with peripheral artery disease were less likely to receive beta-blockers during the early period, but were not treated differentially compared to low risk patients during recent years. Only 15% of patients with congestive heart failure received oral beta-blockers, and only 10.5% intravenous beta-blockade during acute myocardial infarction. The dosing of the most common beta-blockers were low, approximately 50% of doses shown to improve survival after acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10026356
To compare QT dispersion in patients with impaired left ventricular systolic function and in matched control patients with normal left ventricular systolic function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10027497
We discuss briefly the new drug carvedilol (Coreg), a beta-blocker, alpha-blocker, and antioxidant. This drug was developed for congestive heart failure in a series of trials, four in the United States and one in Australia and New Zealand, briefly summarized in this document. We also summarize the classical paradigm of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for drug approval and the FDA's use of advisory committees. This document serves as background to the discussion of carvedilol's approval.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10027498
Carvedilol (Coreg), a beta- and alpha-blocker and an antioxidant drug, was evaluated for moderate to severe heart failure patients in a program containing four United States and one Australia/New Zealand study. The data were evaluated twice by the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). These meetings resulted in opposite decisions by the advisory committee. The crux of the argumentation was the two-positive-trial FDA paradigm. Carvedilol did not meet the usual paradigm because an exercise end point was not statistically different from placebo in three U.S. trials. Most other end points were highly significant, and death, which was monitored across the U.S. program, was different with p < 0.0001. Here we argue that the usual paradigm is very useful but not an absolute principle, that the usual paradigm can sometimes miss the strength of evidence even in the primary end points, and that rational decision making requires on occasion that other evidence must lead to approval. Control of the type I error rate should be taken very seriously, should rarely be violated, and serves the biomedical community well. It is not an absolute principle, however, but rather must be considered in context.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10027499
The recent submission of a new drug application to the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has led to vigorous discussion concerning the rules of clinical trial conduct. The regulatory importance of prospectively defined end points, long held as a fundamental tenet of well-designed research efforts, and the proper role of alpha-spending functions in clinical trials are current foci of attention. Sound public policy requires that the highest research standards govern statistical analyses to support a new drug application. These research standards should be rooted in the fundamentals of epidemiology and biostatistics, long accepted by clinical trial workers. Also, because the physician-scientists whose research results are disseminated to the community bear considerable responsibility for both that community's protection and the protection of the individual patient, these investigators must provide unambiguous interpretations of type I and type II error rates. This obligation includes clear prospective statements of analysis plans and complete reporting of findings for the prospectively defined endpoints in presentations and in manuscripts. The public health is best served if regulatory agencies continue to join clinical trial workers in repudiating the philosophy of "sound methodology or a small p-value" in judging research efforts. Reviewers of new drug applications might best take the tack "judge first what the investigators set out to do, then judge what else was discovered in an 'exploratory light.'"

Abstract for pubmed ID 10028936
Aortic root flow and pressure estimates were obtained noninvasively with Doppler echocardiography and calibrated subclavian artery pulse tracing in 30 subjects with ambulatory hypertension in a randomized, crossover study with 4 weeks' treatment and washout periods. Total arterial compliance, assessed by use of a three-element Windkessel model of the arterial tree, increased 42% with atenolol (50-100 mg once daily), and 7% (p = NS) with captopril (25-50 mg twice daily). Atenolol reduced mean arterial pressure by 15%, heart rate by 22%, and cardiac output by 14%, and increased acceleration time of aortic root flow by 17% and stroke volume and ejection time each by 11%. Captopril reduced mean arterial pressure and total peripheral resistance each by 7%. Acceleration time of aortic root flow, ejection time, heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output were not significantly changed by captopril. We conclude that total arterial compliance, at the operational blood pressure, increases during selective beta1-adrenergic receptor blockade in subjects with ambulatory hypertension. Although the main mechanism may be a reduction in mean arterial pressure, it should be considered whether reduced heart rate may play an additional role. The nonsignificant increase in total arterial compliance during angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition may primarily be a consequence of a modest reduction of the mean arterial pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10030088
Repeated hospitalizations among patients (pts) with congestive heart failure (CHF) are common.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10030097
Prospective, randomized and long term multicentric studies, published since 1988, on the effects of pharmacological or non pharmacological treatment of hypertension are analyzed. Former studies, performed between 1967 and 1987, are devoted, in chronological order, to special populations or to forms of hypertension not sufficiently studied previously (elders and isolated systolic hypertension), using classical pharmacological treatments such as diuretics and beta blockers. Their results confirm the reduction in mortality obtained using such therapies. Ensuing studies, focused on the analysis of new drugs such as calcium antagonists and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, also demonstrated a reduction in cardiovascular risk, even in severely damaged populations. Thereafter, meta analysis of new pharmacological treatments and of non pharmacological therapies such as sodium restriction, weight reduction, avoidance of alcohol intake, calcium and potassium supplementation have appeared. These studies have emphasized the importance of prevention through changes in lifestyles. Their positive, although modest results, encourage the assessment of long term preventive and therapeutic measures in hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10030320
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10030325
Angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been used for more than a decade to treat high blood pressure, despite the lack of data from randomised intervention trials to show that such treatment affects cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The Captopril Prevention Project (CAPPP) is a randomised intervention trial to compare the effects of ACE inhibition and conventional therapy on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10047618
Sotalol, the most recently approved oral antiarrhythmic drug, has a unique pharmacologic profile. Its electrophysiology is explained by nonselective beta-blocking action as well as class III antiarrhythmic activity (including fast-activating cardiac membrane-delayed rectifier current blockade), which leads to increases in action potential duration and refractory period throughout the heart and in QT interval on the surface electrocardiogram. Its better hemodynamic tolerance than other beta-blockers may be a result of enhanced inotropy associated with class III activity. Sotalol's ability to suppress ventricular ectopy is similar to that of class I agents and better than that of standard beta-blockers. Unlike class I agents, its use in a postinfarction trial was not associated with increased mortality rate. Therapeutically, it has shown superior efficacy for prevention of recurrent ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, which was the basis for its approval. In a randomized study, the Electrophysiologic Study Versus Electrocardiographic Monitoring (ESVEM) trial, sotalol was associated with an increased in-hospital efficacy prediction rate (by Holter monitor or electrophysiologic study), reduced long-term arrhythmic recurrence rate with superior tolerance, and lower mortality rate than class I ("standard") antiarrhythmic drugs. Sotalol was 1 of 2 drugs selected for comparison with implantable defibrillators in the recent National Institutes of Health Antiarrhythmics versus Implantable Defibrillator (AVID) study. Sotalol appears to be a preferred drug for use with implantable defibrillators; unlike some other agents (eg, amiodarone) it does not elevate and, indeed, may lower defibrillation threshold. Although unapproved for this use, sotalol is active against atrial arrhythmias. It has shown efficacy equivalent to propafenone and quinidine in preventing atrial fibrillation recurrence, but it is better tolerated than quinidine and provides excellent rate control during recurrence. Sotalol's major side effects are related to beta-blockade and the risk of torsades de pointes (acceptably small if appropriate precautions are taken). Unlike several other antiarrhythmics (eg, amiodarone), it has no pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions, is not metabolized, and is entirely renally excreted. Initial dose is 80 mg twice daily, with gradual titration to 240 to 360 mg/day as needed. The daily dose must be reduced in renal failure. On the basis of favorable clinical trials and practice experience, sotalol has shown a steadily growing impact on the treatment of arrhythmias during its 5 years of market availability, a trend that is likely to continue.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10063787
To assess the efficacy and safety of bisoprolol/6.25-mg hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), amlodipine, and enalapril in black and nonblack patients, data from two comparative studies were pooled and subgroup analyses performed. Both studies had similar designs and included all three active treatments. The second study also included a placebo group. Subjects (n = 541) with a sitting diastolic blood pressure of 95-114 mmHg were titrated to achieve a diastolic blood pressure < or = 90 mmHg. The studies included 114 blacks and 427 nonblacks. Results of an intention-to-treat analysis of mean change from baseline after 12 weeks of treatment showed the following: 1) blood pressure was significantly lowered by all three active drugs compared with baseline or placebo; 2) in blacks, bisoprolol/6.25-mg HCTZ resulted in significantly greater reductions of systolic and diastolic blood pressure than enalapril or placebo, but was not significantly different from amlodipine; 3) in nonblacks, bisoprolol/6.25-mg HCTZ resulted in significantly greater reduction of diastolic blood pressure than amlodipine, enalapril, or placebo. The placebo-corrected change in blood pressure was greater for blacks than whites on the bisoprolol/6.25-mg HCTZ combination, but this was not statistically significant. Bisoprolol/6.25-mg HCTZ controlled diastolic blood pressure to < or = 90 mmHg in significantly more patients than enalapril or placebo in blacks and nonblacks. The difference in control rates was not significant versus amlodipine. The incidence of drug-related adverse events was similar between treatments; however, bisoprolol/6.25-mg HCTZ had a lower discontinuation rate due to lack of blood pressure control or adverse experiences in both blacks and nonblacks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10068356
Percutaneous coronary revascularization frequently relieves angina in patients with ischemic heart disease and may obviate the need for antianginal medications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10073788
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10073847
We examined the possible benefits of achieving and maintaining infarct-related artery potency beyond the time when preservation of left ventricular function would be expected. The open-artery hypothesis suggests that a patent infarct-related artery confers a survival benefit greater than that expected from myocardial salvage alone, which extends beyond the time when preservation of left ventricular function is expected. We examined the survival experience of patients undergoing thrombolysis in the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and TPA for Occluded Arteries (GUSTO-I) trial for whom data on the potency of the infarct artery were available. Univariable analysis was used to determine the unadjusted relations of angiographic variables and revascularization procedures to both 30-day and 1-year mortality in 30-day survivors. Multivariable analysis was used to test for interactions between patency and each characteristic and to adjust both for all other variables and for baseline characteristics known to predict mortality. In both univariable and multivariable analysis, patients with an open rather than a closed infarct-related artery had significantly lower 30-day mortality (p <0.001). This benefit cannot be accounted for by myocardial salvage alone, because it remained after adjustment for left ventricular ejection fraction. Patency was also associated with lower 1-year mortality in 30-day survivors, but not after adjustment for other variables affecting late mortality. Having an open infarct-related artery at the time of first catheterization confers a survival advantage that extends beyond the benefit of myocardial salvage from thrombolytic therapy, and is independent of ejection fraction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10073852
This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel group, placebo lead-in, placebo-controlled study compared the antianginal and anti-ischemic effects of once-daily bedtime dosing of controlled-onset extended-release (COER-24) verapamil to a once-daily morning dosing of amlodipine +/- atenolol in patients with chronic stable angina. A total of 551 patients with exercise-induced myocardial ischemia and evidence of coronary artery disease were randomized to a 4-week, forced-dose titration treatment period with (1) COER-24 verapamil 240 mg titrated to 480 mg at bedtime (n = 173), (2) amlodipine 5 mg titrated to 10 mg/day (n = 149), (3) amlodipine 5 mg (titrated to 10 mg) plus atenolol 50 mg/day in the A.M. (n = 154), or (4) placebo (n = 75). Treadmill exercise tolerance testing (standard Bruce protocol), and 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic (Holter) monitoring were performed at the end of placebo lead-in and double-blind treatment. Each active treatment significantly improved symptom-limited exercise duration and time to moderate angina (p < or = 0.01 vs placebo). For patients with baseline ischemia, amlodipine resulted in a statistically significant increase in total duration of ischemic episodes compared with placebo, whereas COER-24 verapamil and amlodipine plus atenolol resulted in statistically significant decreases compared with placebo and amlodipine. Heart rate at onset of ischemic episodes and ST product were also significantly increased with amlodipine (p < 0.05) compared with either COER-24 or amlodipine plus atenolol. COER-24 and amlodipine alone or in combination with atenolol improved exercise capacity in patients with angina pectoris. COER-24 verapamil monotherapy or amlodipine plus atenolol combination therapy were more effective than amlodipine monotherapy in decreasing ambulatory myocardial ischemia, especially during the hours of 6 A.M. to 12 noon.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10075136
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10075137
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10075140
Determination of the influence of therapy with bisoprolol and nifedipine on the heart rate variability of patients from the Total Ischemic Burden Bisoprolol Study and examination of the prognostic value.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10080412
In a double-blind, randomized, 3-month multicenter study, the safety and tolerability and the antianginal and anti-ischemic efficacy of carvedilol 25 to 50 mg twice daily were assessed in comparison with metoprolol 50 to 100 mg twice daily in younger and elderly patients with stable angina. After a 7-day placebo run-in at the end of which a symptom-limited bicycle ergometric exercise was performed, 368 patients were randomly allocated to the parallel treatment groups. After 4 weeks of therapy with a low dose, a further exercise test was performed and patients were titrated in single-blind fashion to the higher dose if the increase in total exercise time was < 1 minute, and there was no safety concern. After a further 8 weeks of treatment a third exercise test was performed. Carvedilol low dose/high dose was shown to be at least as safe and well tolerated as metoprolol low dose/high dose both in younger and elderly patients. There were no hitherto unknown adverse events and no marked change in the types of events after increase of the doses. Early adverse events after treatment initiation or uptitration were equal with both medications, indicating no particular risk associated with carvedilol's vasodilatory action. No rebound phenomena were observed. Both drugs showed good antianginal and anti-ischemic efficacy, with marked increases on uptitration including patients > or = 65 years of age. However, in the doses selected, which appeared equipotent with respect to beta blockade, carvedilol's improvement of time to 1-mm ST-segment depression was statistically significantly greater than that of metoprolol. This could be due to its additional vasodilatory or antioxidative actions. Based on the safety and efficacy data of the present study, use of the higher of the 2 recommended doses of carvedilol and metoprolol appears justified in younger and elderly patients without adequate therapeutic control at lower doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10081339
Chronic heart failure (CHF) is generally associated with a poor prognosis with an annual mortality rate ranging between 15-50% depending on the severity of cardiac dysfunction thus presenting a major health problem in our society. Drugs for the treatment of CHF include vasodilators (ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers), diuretics, digoxin and beta-blockers. However, antiarrhythmic drugs are not currently recommended in the management of CHF with the exception of beta-blockers for which a favorable effect on the prognosis could be shown. Amiodarone is effective in the suppression of ventricular arrhythmias without a significant effect on total mortality. Implanted defibrillators are superior to antiarrhythmic drug therapy in prolonging survival among survivors of sudden cardiac death. They should be offered as firstline therapy in case of life-threatening ventricular tachy-arrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10081516
To compare the analgesic effect of metoprolol and morphine in patients with chest pain due to suspected or definite acute myocardial infarction after initial treatment with intravenous metoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10081517
To describe variations by age, sex, symptom severity and hospital region in the use of various medications amongst patients with stable angina pectoris who are candidates for coronary revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10082500
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been shown to slow the progression of chronic renal failure. However, the value of ACE inhibitors for the treatment of hypertension in renal allograft recipients has not been established. ACE inhibitors dilate the efferent glomerular arteriole, an effect that may aggravate the decrease in glomerular filtration rate resulting from cyclosporine-induced vasoconstriction at the afferent glomerular arteriole. Therefore, the goal of this double-blind, randomized study was to compare the antihypertensive and renal effects of the ACE inhibitor quinapril with those of the beta-blocker atenolol in renal allograft recipients in whom hypertension developed 6 to 12 weeks after transplantation. All patients received cyclosporine as an immunosuppressant and had stable graft function (serum creatinine concentration, <220 micromol/L) at entry into the study. Twenty-nine patients who received quinapril (daily dose titrated between 2.5 and 20 mg) and 30 patients who received atenolol (daily dose titrated between 12.5 and 100 mg) completed the 24-month study. The two groups did not differ in age, sex ratio, height, and weight before entry into the study. Quinapril decreased diastolic blood pressure from 96+/-1 to 84+/-1 mm Hg (average throughout treatment period), and atenolol decreased diastolic blood pressure from 96+/-1 to 83+/-1 mm Hg. The serum creatinine concentration did not change significantly in either group after 24 months (129+/-8 micromol/L at entry and 148+/-19 micromol/L after 24 months in the quinapril group and 131+/-6 micromol/L at entry and 152+/-15 micromol/L after 24 months in the atenolol group; P=NS for both groups). After 24 months, the change in urinary albumin excretion from baseline was -10+/-15 mg/d in the quinapril group and 52+/-32 mg/d in the atenolol group (P=0.03). These results show that quinapril and atenolol are effective antihypertensive drugs when used after renal transplantation. Moreover, compared with atenolol, quinapril has no adverse effects on graft function. The relative reduction in albuminuria observed with quinapril as compared with atenolol could indicate a beneficial effect of quinapril on long-term graft function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10088066
The RIMA (Rimodellamento Infarto Miocardico Acuto) study was designed to assess the relative effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition by captopril, beta-blocker therapy by metoprolol, and their combination in patients with a first acute myocardial infarction on: 1. echocardiographically detected left ventricular remodeling; 2. prognosis. The second goal will be the argument of the present paper. Two-hundred fifty < or = 75 years consecutive patients (mean age: 58 yrs, males = 203) with acute myocardial infarction were randomly allocated to receive for > or = 3 months captopril (up to 75 mg/day, Group 1), metoprolol (up to 200 mg/day, Group 2) or captopril + metoprolol (Group 3) starting in the first 24 hours after the onset of symptoms. Intravenous beta-blockers in the acute phase of myocardial infarction and all other cardioactive drugs were allowed. The effect of the randomized therapy at six months from admission to the coronary care unit was considered in relation to: 1. recurrence of spontaneous cardiac events and of elective revascularization procedures; 2. adverse reactions (hypotension, atrioventricular block, cough, allergy, need of beta-blockers in Group 1, need for ACE inhibition in Group 2) requiring treatment modification based on physician's decision.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10090111
Concern based on the reported short-term adverse effects of antihypertensive agents on plasma lipid and lipoprotein profiles (PLPPs) has complicated the therapy for hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10091817
The purpose of this study was to assess the tolerability and efficacy of carvedilol in patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class IV symptoms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10095796
To compare the long-term effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitor quinapril and the cardioselective beta-adrenergic blocking agent metoprolol on glycaemic control, with glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) as the principal variable, in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients with hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10097224
The aim of the study was to assess the effects of carvedilol, a vasodilating nonselective beta-blocker, on the indexes of left ventricular remodeling after acute myocardial infarction in those with left ventricular dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10097226
beta-Blocker therapy is believed to modulate the detrimental effect of overcompensating neurohormonal activation in chronic heart failure. However, clinical doubts remain, particularly the physiologic sympathovagal balance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10099062
The effects of metoclopramide, labetalol, and metoclopramide plus labetalol treatments on baseline cardiovascular parameters and isometric handgrip-induced changes were evaluated in 11 hypertensive subjects. Although all treatments were effective in reducing resting systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressures, the combination of metoclopramide and labetalol appeared to provide a greater decrease (changes in SBP/DBP: 15/11 mm Hg, P < 0.05; from 149 +/- 4/95 +/- 4 mm Hg to 134 +/- 5/84 +/- 3 mm Hg) than did labetalol alone (changes in SBP/DBP: 10/9 mm Hg, P < 0.05; from 149 +/- 4/95 +/- 4 to 139 +/- 4/86 +/- 3 mm Hg). At 2 minutes, handgrip increased blood pressure on placebo (changes in SBP/DBP: 34/7 mm Hg, P < 0. 001). In the presence of metoclopramide and metoclopramide plus labetalol, however, handgrip induced lesser increases in blood pressure (changes in SBP/DBP: 23/7 mm Hg, P < 0.01, and 18/4 mm Hg, P < 0.01, for metoclopramide and metoclopramide plus labetalol treatments). We conclude that (1) metoclopramide lowers blood pressure in hypertensive patients; (2) metoclopramide attenuates blood pressure response to isometric handgrip; and (3) both compounds, labetalol and metoclopramide, seem to have a pharmacologic interaction concerning blood pressure decrease. A clinical significance is suggested for the metoclopramide effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10099065
The efficacy and acceptability of 5 mg nebivolol once daily, a long-acting, vasodilating cardioselective beta blocker that additionally facilitates the L-arginine/nitric oxide system, was assessed in a double-blind, randomized trial in comparison with 20 mg nifedipine retard twice daily in patients with essential hypertension. At 2 weeks of treatment, nebivolol was significantly more effective. Thereafter, both drugs effectively and similarly lowered systolic and diastolic pressures without orthostatic effect. Nebivolol had a trough-to-peak antihypertensive effect ratio of 90%. Nifedipine gave the expected side effects of headache, flushing, and edema. Nebivolol was well tolerated. Nebivolol slightly but significantly lowered heart rate. Neither drug adversely affected plasma levels of lipids.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10099075
To assess the efficacy and safety of 2.5, 5, and 10 mg bisoprolol/6. 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), 2.5, 5, and 10 mg amlodipine; and 5, 10, 20, and 40 mg enalapril in subjects (n = 541) with a sitting diastolic blood pressure of 95 to 114 mm Hg, data from two comparative studies were pooled. All drugs were titrated to a diastolic blood pressure 90 mm Hg or less. Both studies were double-blind, randomized, parallel dose escalation trials with similar designs and included three active treatments. The second study also had a placebo group. The mean change from baseline of systolic and diastolic blood pressure for placebo (n = 79) was -0. 1/-2.2 mm Hg; amlodipine (n = 154), -12.4/-10.3 mm Hg; enalapril (n = 155), -9.4/-8.2 mm Hg; and bisoprolol/HCTZ (n = 155), -14.0/-12.0. Overall efficacy analyses documented a statistically significant decrease in sitting diastolic blood pressure for bisoprolol/6.25 mg HCTZ compared with placebo, amlodipine, and enalapril. There was a significant reduction in sitting systolic blood pressure for bisoprolol/6.25 mg HCTZ compared with placebo and enalapril but not amlodipine. Also, there was a significant decrease in sitting heart rate for bisoprolol/6.25 mg HCTZ (-6.2 beats/min) compared with placebo (+0.1 beats/min), amlodipine (+1.2 beats/min), and enalapril (+0.5 beats/min). The control rate (diastolic blood pressure < or = 90 mm Hg) for bisoprolol/6.25 mg HCTZ (66.5%) was significantly better than for placebo (21.8%) and enalapril (47.1%) but not amlodipine (58.4%). Of those patients achieving and maintaining control, 49% of the bisoprolol/6.25 mg HCTZ subjects were on the lowest two doses compared with 30% of the amlodipine and 26% of the enalapril subjects. Percentages of patients reporting at least one drug-related adverse event through week 12 were 27%, 24%, 28%, and 25% for placebo, bisoprolol/6.25 mg HCTZ, amlodipine, and enalapril (not significant). Lower doses of two drugs in fixed combination can provide as good or better blood pressure control compared with higher doses of a single drug with similar tolerability and safety.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10099140
We compared propranolol therapy and endoscopic ligation for the primary prevention of bleeding from esophageal varices. This prospective, controlled trial included consecutive eligible patients who had large varices (>5 mm in diameter) that were at high risk for bleeding. The patients were assigned to either propranolol therapy, at a dose sufficient to decrease the base-line heart rate by 25 percent, or variceal ligation, to be performed weekly until the varices were obliterated or so reduced in size that it was not possible to continue treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10100068
The role of arginine vasopressin (AVP) in the development and maintenance of arterial hypertension is controversial. Furthermore, it remains unclear whether chronic treatment with antihypertensive agents modulates levels of AVP, with potential secondary effects on vascular tone and fluid homeostasis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10150325
Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) dramatically worsens hypertensive illness. Because the genesis of LVH appears to be multifactorial, antihypertensive treatment should aim to reduce not only pressor values but also the hypertrophic ventricular mass. This result can be obtained only when drugs able to act on both pathogenetic factors are used. To evaluate the effectiveness of antihypertensive therapy on regression of LVH, 21 patients with stage 2 essential hypertension were treated for a year with either atenolol (120 mg/d orally), a cardioselective beta-blocker without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, or ramipril (5 mg/d orally), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor with high tissue activity. Both treatments produced significant control of hypertension and regression of LVH. No statistically significant difference between treatments was noted, except for heart rate, which was substantially unchanged by ramipril but significantly decreased by atenolol. Both drugs were well tolerated. Atenolol and ramipril have a major role in the long-term treatment of hypertension and in the regression of hypertension-associated LVH.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10155349
In this randomized, open-label, multicenter comparison, 140 adults with mild to moderate essential hypertension were treated with the nonselective beta blocker carvedilol (25 mg once daily) or the selective beta 1 blocker atenolol (100 mg once daily) orally for 2 months. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were measured monthly in the supine and standing positions. Urinary albumin levels and blood lipid profile were determined at baseline and at study end. The occurrence of cold extremities was monitored throughout the study. Both treatments significantly decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressure at a comparable level. At the final assessment, 88% of the carvedilol group achieved a supine diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg or lower, compared with 82% of the atenolol group. Atenolol produced the greater decrease in heart rate, but between-group differences were significant only for standing measurements. With carvedilol, urinary albumin decreased in 25% of patients and increased in 2%; corresponding figures with atenolol were 13% and 12%. At study end, 10% of the carvedilol group and 37% of the atenolol group complained of cold extremities. No major between-group differences were observed in the percentage of patients with an increase in high-density lipoprotein or a decrease in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Triglycerides and total cholesterol tended to decrease in a greater percentage of patients taking carvedilol than atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10169635
Members of the U.S. Cardevivol Study Group at Lovelace Scientific Resources, Albuquerque, NM, designed and carried out a large multicenter randomized clinical trial of Cardevilol vs placebo in patients with clinical heart failure and ejection fraction < 0.35.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10178465
Little published information regarding current pharmacotherapeutic treatment patterns for congestive heart failure (CHF) in nonacademic, ambulatory care settings is available. We sought to assess, in a nonacademic primary care environment, pharmacotherapeutic treatment patterns for CHF with respect to consistency with clinical trial evidence and published treatment guideline recommendations. Over an 18-month period, we examined CHF pharmacotherapy using a computerized, integrated clinical diagnoses and prescription database from an outpatient community healthcare center without academic affiliations. We identified adult patients meeting contact criteria and with diagnosis of CHF by International Classification of Diseases (ICD-9-CM) coding and assessed prescribed therapy as well as select comorbid conditions. Drugs of interest included those with known or suspected benefit or detriment and those with unproven benefit. An eligible group of 14,983 patients was identified, from which a cohort of 148 patients with CHF was selected. Forty-one percent of these 148 patients were prescribed an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, 34% digoxin, 12% diuretic, 12% hydralazine + nitrate, 20% inhaled beta-agonists, and 66% warfarin. Only 5% of patients were prescribed the combination of an ACE inhibitor, digoxin, and diuretic. Thirty-one percent had a comorbid diagnosis of atrial fibrillation, of whom 44% were prescribed digoxin, 22% diltiazem, 15% beta-blockers, 15% digoxin and diltiazem, 7% digoxin and a beta-blocker, and 33% warfarin. In general, recommended therapies for CHF appeared underutilized in this cohort, whereas those of unclear benefit and potential detriment appeared overutilized. Although these results may not be readily generalized to the entire healthcare system, they do suggest a need for additional analysis and potential intervention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10189005
Beta-Blockers reduce mortality in patients with congestive heart failure and a proposed mechanism has been changes of autonomic tone. Heart rate variability is a non-invasive tool to estimate cardiac autonomic tone. The aim was to study changes of heart rate variability in patients with congestive heart failure on placebo, on the beta1-selective antagonist metoprolol or 24 h after metoprolol withdrawal. Forty-five patients with congestive heart failure were studied with Holter recordings. Heart rate variability measurements were performed before, after 6-12 months of treatment with 150 mg metoprolol/placebo, or 24 h after discontinued metoprolol. After treatment, patients on beta-blockade had a significantly longer mean RR interval and changes of heart rate variability, suggesting elevated vagal tone. Patients monitored in the rebound phase of beta-blocker withdrawal had a significant vagal reduction to the level of the placebo group. There was also a nonsignificant trend towards increased sympathetic tone (LF/HF over 24 h), compared with the beta-blockade group. Heart rate variability indicates an elevated vagal tone during treatment with metoprolol but beta-blockade withdrawal shifts the autonomic balance towards lower vagal and higher sympathetic tone within 24 h. These results could imply a potential risk when abruptly discontinuing beta-blockade medication in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10190404
Earlier studies have shown that cardiovascular autonomic regulation is impaired in untreated or poorly controlled systemic hypertension. The purpose of this double-blind, randomized parallel trial was to evaluate whether improved blood pressure (BP) control can reverse this impairment. The study group consisted of 33 patients (age 45 to 63 years) with poor BP control who received randomized metoprolol or enalapril monotherapy. Baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) was assessed by phenylephrine test and time- and frequency-domain measurements of heart rate variability (HRV) were analyzed from 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recordings during monotherapy and after 10 weeks of combination therapy with metoprolol + felodipine or enalaril + hydrochlorothiazide to lower casual BP to < 140/90 mm Hg. Intensified treatment decreased 24-hour systolic and diastolic BP from 139 +/- 12/86 +/- 8 mm Hg to 126 +/- 8/80 +/- 7 mm Hg (p <0.0001). BRS improved from 6.2 +/- 3.2 ms/mm Hg to 8.9 +/- 4.1 ms/mm Hg (p <0.0001) and measurements of HRV (e.g., SD of all RR intervals from 128 +/- 45 ms to 145 +/- 46 ms, p <0.001) improved significantly during the combination therapy. Changes in BRS and HRV were similar in magnitude in both treatment arms. Mean RR intervals were comparable before and after intensive antihypertensive therapy (850 +/- 124 ms vs 937 +/- 279 ms, p = NS). These data indicate that adequate BP control with modem antihypertensive combination therapy can improve cardiovascular autonomic function, which may partially explain the reduced cardiac mortality observed in patients with intensified antihypertensive therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10190405
In this study, we examine the cost effectiveness of carvedilol for the treatment of chronic heart failure (CHF). We use a Markov model to project life expectancy and lifetime medical care costs for a hypothetical cohort of patients with CHF who were assumed alternatively to receive carvedilol plus conventional therapy (digoxin, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors) or conventional therapy alone. Patients on carvedilol were assumed to experience a reduced risk of death and hospitalization for CHF, which is consistent with findings from the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program. The benefits of carvedilol were projected under 2 alternative scenarios. In the first ("limited benefits"), benefits were conservatively assumed to persist for 6 months, the average duration of follow-up in these clinical trials, and then end abruptly. In the other ("extended benefits"), they were arbitrarily assumed to persist for 6 months and then decline gradually over time, vanishing by the end of 3 years. We estimated our model using data from the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program and other sources. For patients receiving conventional therapy alone, estimated life expectancy was 6.67 years; corresponding figures for those also receiving carvedilol were 6.98 and 7.62 years under the limited and extended benefits scenarios, respectively. Expected lifetime costs of CHF-related care were estimated to be $28,756 for conventional therapy, and $36,420 and $38,867 for carvedilol (limited and extended benefits, respectively). Cost per life-year saved for carvedilol was $29,477 and $12,799 under limited and extended benefits assumptions, respectively. The cost effectiveness of carvedilol for CHF compares favorably to that of other generally accepted medical interventions, even under conservative assumptions regarding the duration of therapeutic benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10192973
Nebivolol was compared in a dose of 5 mg once daily with enalapril 10 mg once daily over 7 months in a double-blind randomised trial in essential hypertension. The two drugs had very similar sustained effects in lowering both systolic and diastolic pressures; neither had an orthostatic component. Both drugs were well-tolerated. No haematological, biochemical, or urinary abnormalities were seen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10193451
Carvedilol is a non-selective beta-blocker, and the only one, in recent clinical trials, to have shown a clear reduction in mortality. It is suggested that, compared with other beta-blockers, carvedilol has additional advantageous effects in heart failure, and should be considered as part of the routine treatment of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10193670
The effects on plasma angiotensin-converting enzyme activity and renin activity of the two long-acting angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, lisinopril and enalapril, alone and in combination with propranolol were studied. In an open, randomised, cross-over design 12 healthy volunteers received orally enalapril 20 mg alone, enalapril 20 mg in combination with propranolol 80 mg, lisinopril 20 mg alone, and lisinopril 20 mg in combination with propranolol 80 mg. Plasma angiotensin-converting enzyme activity and plasma renin activity were measured for 24 h after each treatment period. Lisinopril and enalapril reduced plasma angiotensin converting enzyme activity substantially and equally at six hr (-70%, P<0.05) and 12 hr (-65%, P<0.05), irrespective of combination with propranolol. At 24 hr plasma angiotensin-converting enzyme activity remained significantly suppressed only after lisinopril (-60%, P<0.05). Plasma renin activity increased almost ten times after ingestion of both angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, but the effect lasted significantly longer after lisinopril than after enalapril. Beta-Adrenergic blockade blunted the effect on the increase in plasma renin activity induced by both angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Our results show that the effect of lisinopril on plasma angiotensin-converting enzyme activity and plasma renin activity lasted longer than that of enalapril. beta-Adrenergic blockade suppressed the effect on elevated plasma renin activity, but did not influence the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on plasma angiotensin-converting enzyme activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10197196
A number of important questions surrounding the treatment of systolic congestive heart failure have been answered by randomised clinical trials completed within the past 2 years. In particular, these studies have established that high-dose angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition is more beneficial than low dose therapy, and that angiotensin II receptor antagonists are an acceptable alternative in patients unable to tolerate ACE inhibitors. Digoxin has been shown to be the only inotropic agent not associated with increased mortality, while amiodarone exerts a modest survival benefit in arrhythmiaprone patients. Beta-blockers appear to be beneficial for selected patients although their precise role remains to be defined by ongoing studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10204815
The objective of this analysis was to determine whether changes in baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) within 35 hypertensive patients (25 M, 10 F, mean age 47 years) treated with beta-blockade as monotherapy relate to reductions in ambulatory blood pressure (BP) or its variability. BP was recorded intra-arterially directly from the brachial artery before and during submaximal exercise. BRS was determined by the phenylephrine injection technique. MAP and its variability were determined for the awake period of 24-h BP monitoring. Subjects were randomised to one of atenolol, metoprolol, pindolol, or propranolol, and restudied after a mean of 5 months. Beta-blockade increased BRS in 24 patients and decreased BRS in 11. BRS increased from 6.53+/-4.94 to 9.40+/-8.62 ms/mm Hg (mean +/- s.d.) (P<0.01). Waking ambulatory MAP decreased from 125.8+/-15.8 to 106.4+/-16.2 mm Hg (P<0.0001), but its variability did not change. Higher BRS after chronic beta-blockade was associated with a decrease in waking ambulatory MAP (r = -0.55, P<0.001), but not with its variability (r = -0.08). Beta-blockade attenuated the pressor response to exercise, but there was a positive relationship between the effect of beta-blockade on BRS, and on the rise in systolic BP during bicycling (r = 0.63; P<0.001). Any dampening effect of beta-blockade on BP variability at rest in hypertensive patients with the greatest increase in BRS may be offset by increased pressor responses to physical activity such as exercise. Consequently, BP variability is unaffected, even though reductions in ambulatory BP during chronic beta-blockade are inversely related to changes in BRS. BP responses to beta-blockade may be a function of the action of this class of drugs on BRS. However, there is considerable variation, between subjects, in their effect on BRS. This may have implications for other conditions, such as dilated cardiomyopathy, or following myocardial infarction, in which improvement in BRS is one mechanism by which beta-adrenoceptor blockade could improve survival.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10206383
To compare the efficacy of sotalol versus amiodarone for long-term treatment of ventricular tachyarrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10208787
A large number of drugs are currently used for the treatment of chronic heart failure. Treatment for other cardiovascular disorders has been shown to differ between countries. In this study we examined whether this would also be true in heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10212156
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10215284
We and others have previously shown that carvedilol improves left ventricular (LV) function and symptoms in chronic heart failure. This improvement in LV function has also been shown to be associated with an improvement in survival. This study evaluates the effect of carvedilol on LV mass, geometry, and degree of mitral regurgitation (MR). In 59 patients with symptomatic heart failure and LV ejection fraction <0.35, previously randomized to either treatment with carvedilol or placebo, we evaluated LV mass, geometry, and degree of MR over the time period of carvedilol treatment. LV mass decreased as early as 4 months into the treatment protocol and continued to decrease over a period of 1 year. LV geometry, defined by the length/diameter ratio, and severity of MR also improved with 4 months of therapy. Thus, compared with placebo treatment, carvedilol decreases LV mass while improving cardiac geometry and decreasing MR in patients with chronic heart failure. These changes occur in association with an improvement in LV systolic function. This process begins by 4 months of treatment and continues for 12 months.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10215303
The effect of beta blockade on heart rate in patients with either idiopathic or ischemic cardiomyopathy was studied. It was found that beta blockade reduced the early morning increase in heart rate to a greater extent in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy than in those with ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10218722
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of long-term monotherapy with four different beta-blockers on plasma lipids in hypercholesterolemic hypertensive patients. We studied 152 subjects with essential hypertension [diastolic blood pressure (DBP) >90 mm Hg], total cholesterol (TC) >240 and <330 mg/dl, and triglycerides (TGs) <300 mg/dl. After a 4-week washout period with placebo, patients were randomized to receive propranolol, 160 mg/day (n = 37), atenolol, 100 mg/day (n = 38), bisoprolol, 10 mg/day (n = 39), or celiprolol, 400 mg/day (n = 38), for 18 months. No cholesterol-reducing drug was allowed. Blood samples for evaluation of TC, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), HDL cholesterol (HDL-C), and TGs were taken before and after the placebo period and subsequently every 6 months. No beta-blocker worsened TC or LDL-C. Nonselective propranolol caused the most pronounced changes in HDL-C and TGs. Beta1-Selective atenolol produced the same qualitative effects, but to a lesser extent. The more beta1-selective bisoprolol did not affect HDL-C and TGs. Celiprolol significantly improved the lipid profile by significantly decreasing TC, LDL-C, and TGs, and increasing HDL-C. These findings suggest that in hypercholesterolemic hypertensive patients, (a) beta1-selective beta-blockers are likely to adversely affect plasma lipids to a lesser extent than nonselective ones; and (b) celiprolol is able to improve the lipid pattern, which could be because of its peculiar ancillary properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10220102
This article is a review of chronic compensated congestive heart failure (CHF), with special reference to its clinical features and pathophysiology and recent advances in pharmacotherapy, including beta-blockers, loop diuretics, ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Clinical problems related to elderly patients and multifaceted aspects of multidisciplinary approaches of medical care to these particular patients are also discussed with special emphasis on the aspect of improved quality of life associated with reduced mortality. Concepts of CHF have greatly changed over the past decades with regard to its pathophysiology, natural progression, mechanisms, causes of death, arrhythmias and treatment goals. Although the current most frequent aetiologies of CHF include coronary heart disease and dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertension has been revisited in a different way, and has been considered of pivotal importance in most recent trends and possibly in future perspectives. Nowadays, however, with the results of improved survival, alleviation of symptoms, improvement in functional capacity and prevention of associated complications including even left ventricular remodelling through various appropriate pharmacotherapies, patients with CHF are used to being physically and psychosocially more active than ever before. Thus, improvement of patients' quality of life and reduction of mortality have become of prime importance in achieving treatment goals. Another emerging aspect of CHF is aging itself, and special features in the medical care of elderly patients with CHF always have to be taken into consideration in reduction of hospital readmission along with improvement of morbidity and mortality. Despite advances in the treatment of CHF, it remains a common disease with a poor prognosis. Therefore, this review focuses on what we should be trying to achieve in reaching goals to reduce repeated hospital readmission and mortality, and increase social activity and quality of life, especially in elderly patients with CHF. In these clinical settings, educational strategies for patients and their family members should be emphasised. Multidisciplinary interventions by nurses and possibly other contributions from a widely available social support system might be effective in preventing repeated hospital readmissions of elderly patients with CHF. In this regard, special precautions have to be paid in the management of elderly patients to achieve effective treatment goals, and any treatment strategy has to be appropriately determined through a comprehensive assessment of patient clinical profiles. Multidisciplinary approaches to these problems have to be effectively utilised to improve patients' quality of life, while possibly reducing medical expenses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10220232
We wanted to determine the clinical cost of managing hypertension when following the Joint National Committee on Hypertension (JNC) guidelines, including drug therapy, the cost of monitoring for and treating side effects, compliance, and the cost of switching after therapeutic failures.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10220541
To examine clinical outcomes associated with optional beta blockade in a population of patients with evidence of heart failure after myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10220630
The aim of this study was to describe the effect of intravenous metoprolol on the intensity of chest pain before hospital admission in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction AMI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10220634
The primary objective of this randomized, double-blind, parallel group trial was to compare the antianginal and antiischemic efficacy of a combination tablet of felodipine-metoprolol 10/100 mg once daily with both drugs given separately once daily in patients with stable effort-induced angina pectoris. The secondary objective was to compare the tolerability of the 3 treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10220639
To explore the use of neuroendocrine monitoring for more timely diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (DMD) and to determine the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) and beta-blockers on neuroendocrine levels, left ventricular diastolic diameter (LVDd), ejection fraction, and mortality rate on DMD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10221068
CIBIS-II was a multicentre bouble-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial which enrolled 2,647 class III-IV heart failure patients, with a left ventricular ejection fraction < or = 35%, receiving standard therapy with a diuretic and ACEI and randomly assigned to placebo (n = 1,320) or to bisoprolol (n = 1,327) 1.25 mg/day, progressively increased to a maximum of 10 mg/day. Mean follow-up was 1.3 years. The study was stopped early because the 2nd interim analysis showed a significant mortality benefit in the treated group. All cause mortality was significantly lower in the bisoprolol group (156 [11.8%] vs 228 [17.3%]; p < 0.0001). Sudden deaths were fewer among patients on bisoprolol and treatment effects were independent on severity and aetiology of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10229240
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10235094
To identify the clinical correlates of recurrent heart failure hospitalization in a large urban hospital serving predominately African-American patients, and to provide further insight into modifiable risks for heart failure readmissions, a retrospective period prevalence review of the records of all adult patients admitted with a primary diagnosis of heart failure (International Classification of Diseases-9 code 428.0) between January and December 1995 was performed. The main outcome was the number of heart failure hospitalizations over 12 months. Twelve hundred patients were identified. Mean age was 64 +/- 16 years, 94% were black, 57% were women, and 40% were > or = 65 years old. Ninety-eight percent had a history of systemic hypertension and 55% had uncontrolled hypertension. Other comorbidities were left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy (64%), coronary artery disease (52%), and tobacco abuse (28%). Sixty-five percent of patients were on angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, 51% on calcium antagonists, and 8% on beta blockers. Most patients had suboptimal dosing of ACE inhibitors and there was inappropriate use of calcium antagonists in 56% of patients with moderate or severe systolic dysfunction. Diabetes mellitus and echocardiographic wall motion abnormality were independently associated with frequent admissions for women but not for men. Medication-related increase in heart failure hospitalization was seen for calcium antagonists in patients with severe LV dysfunction (odds ratio 2.24, 95% confidence intervals 1.0 to 5.03; p <0.03). Uncontrolled hypertension, underdosing of ACE inhibitors, and overuse of calcium antagonists in patients with significant LV dysfunction are potential targets for intervention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10235696
Nebivolol is a lipophilic beta1-blocker. It is devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic or membrane stabilising activity but appears to have nitric oxide-mediated vasodilatory effects. Nebivolol is administered as a racemic mixture of equal proportions of d- and l-enantiomers. The drug does not significantly influence glucose or plasma lipid metabolism and appears to have a protective effect on left ventricular function. At the recommended dosage (5 mg once daily) nebivolol reduces resting diastolic blood pressure as effectively as standard therapeutic dosages of atenolol, metoprolol, lisinopril and nifedipine, as shown in comparative trials. Nebivolol reduced blood pressure significantly more than enalapril 10 mg daily in the short but not the long term, although the enalapril dose may not have been optimal. Nebivolol has an additive effect in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. Standing blood pressure and/or mean 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure is significantly and similarly reduced with nebivolol, atenolol or nifedipine. Nebivolol tended to prevent increases in early morning blood pressure better than nifedipine. Overall response rates to nebivolol therapy (a decrease in sitting/supine diastolic blood pressure to < or = 90 mm Hg or a 10% or > or = 10 mm Hg fall in diastolic blood pressure) ranged from 58 to 81% after 4 to 52 weeks' treatment. In comparative studies, response rates were greater in nebivolol than in enalapril or metoprolol recipients, but not significantly different from those in atenolol or nifedipine recipients. Nebivolol 5 mg once daily is well tolerated in patients with hypertension. Adverse events are infrequent, transient and mild to moderate. Those reported most often include headache, fatigue, paraesthesias and dizziness. Several studies reported no signs of orthostatic hypotension with nebivolol. Comparative trials revealed no significant differences between the frequency and severity of adverse events in patients receiving nebivolol, atenolol, enalapril or placebo; however, the overall incidence of adverse events was greater with nifedipine or metoprolol. Some atenolol or enalapril, but not nebivolol, recipients reported impotence or decreased libido during therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10321112
The Captopril Prevention Project (CAPPP) was a prospective, randomized, open trial which aimed at comparing the prevention by captopril (n = 5492) or by a conventional treatment (n = 5493; diuretics or beta-blockers) of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with hypertension (diastolic blood pressure > 100 mmHg). After a mean follow-up of 6.1 years, the results regarding the primary endpoint and most secondary endpoints were not significantly different between the two therapeutic modalities. The only differences (perhaps due to a randomisation bias) were a slightly higher incidence of stroke, but a lower risk of diabetes mellitus, in the captopril group than in the group receiving conventional treatment. In conclusion, the CAPPP study demonstrates, for the first time, that captopril, an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, is as effective as conventional treatment with diuretics or beta-blockers, two drugs whose efficacy has already been demonstrated when compared to placebo, in the prevention of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10321444
This study compared the antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of a combination tablet containing the vascular-selective calcium antagonist felodipine and the beta1-selective adrenergic antagonist metoprolol, with a combination tablet of captopril-hydrochlorothiazide in a randomized, double-blind trial involving 109 patients with mild to moderate hypertension. After 2 weeks on placebo, patients with a supine diastolic blood pressure of 95-115 mm Hg were randomized to felodipine-metoprolol, 5/50 mg o.d. (Logimax) or captopril-hydrochlorothiazide, 25/25 mg o.d. (Capozide). After a further 4 weeks, there was a mandatory dose increase to felodipine-metoprolol 10/100 mg o.d., and captopril-hydrochlorothiazide, 50/25 mg o.d., and treatment then continued for a another 4 weeks. At the end of the study, felodipine-metoprolol reduced supine blood pressure significantly more than captopril-hydrochlorothiazide. The mean differences in change in supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure between treatments after 8 weeks were 5.2 and 3.4 mm Hg, respectively, in favour of felodipine-metoprolol (p<0.05). Standing blood pressure also showed trends in favour of felodipine-metoprolol. The proportion of responders was similar in both groups. Both treatments were well tolerated. Two patients treated with felodipine-metoprolol and 5 with captopril-hydrochlorothiazide discontinued treatment due to adverse events. Felodipine-metoprolol combination reduced supine blood pressure significantly more than captopril-hydrochlorothiazide with maintained tolerability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10323654
To investigate the prevalence of hypertension in older persons, the prevalence of the different antihypertensive drugs used to treat hypertension, the prevalence of the different antihypertensive drugs used to treat hypertension in persons with prior myocardial infarction (MI) or congestive heart failure (CHF), and the prevalence of lowering the blood pressure to <140/90 mm Hg with therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10327727
Little information is available on the long-term evolution of left ventricular function of medically treated patients with coronary artery disease and gross limitation of coronary flow reserve. The aim of this study was to assess the long-term evolution of effort tolerance and left ventricular function and their relation to the control of ischemic events in patients with coronary artery disease and prolonged inducible exercise-induced myocardial dysfunction who either declined or were ineligible for cardiac revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10329091
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10331109
Preliminary reports have suggested that concomitant institution of pindolol and serotonin reuptake inhibitors robustly hastens clinical response; however, contradictory evidence from a randomized double-blind, controlled trial was recently reported by this group in a population of depressed patients who were prescribed fluoxetine and pindolol. Herein, we report final results from an extended sample size.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10335420
The effect of propranolol on the occurrence of hypoglycaemic symptoms was assessed in insulin-dependent diabetic patients with hypoglycaemia unawareness. A double-blind, randomised parallel group study (2:1 fashion) was conducted over 4-week period. The propranolol group (n = 9) received 20 mg (week 1 and 2) and 30 mg (week 3 and 4) twice daily, and the other group (n = 5) a matched placebo for 4 weeks. Patients included had experienced at least two severe hypoglycaemic episodes (coma or seizures) during the previous year, which were characterised by a lack of adrenergic symptoms and required the assistance of another person. The mean number of hypoglycaemias during the study period was similar in both groups (placebo: 13 +/- 2 propranolol: 11 +/- 1), whereas the number of totally asymptomatic hypoglycaemias (< 0.6 g/l) was lower on propranolol than on placebo (3 +/- 1 vs 8 +/- 3, NS) and the number of symptomatic hypoglycaemias was higher (7.2 +/- 2 vs 4.6 +/- 1, NS). Subjective evaluation of treatment by the investigators showed 0/5 successes in the placebo group and 5/9 in the propranolol group (chi2 = 4.32, p = 0.038). The main advantage of propranolol over placebo was an increased incidence of sweating. The ratio [number of hypoglycaemias with sweating/total number of hypoglycaemias] being higher with propranolol (0.28 +/- 0.08 vs 0.06 +/- 0.02, p = 0.06). This pilot study suggests that beta-blockers may be useful in restoring adrenergic symptoms during hypoglycaemia in insulin-dependent diabetic patients without warning symptoms of hypoglycaemia. This beneficial effect seems to be predominantly related to an increase in hypoglycaemia-induced sweating. A larger study is needed to confirm or invalidate these preliminary results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10337449
The use of beta-blockers in heart failure for a long time was regarded as contra-indicated because of their negative inotropic effects. Nevertheless, there is growing evidence that beta-blockers slow down the progression of left ventricular dilatation that characterizes heart failure. In addition changes in left ventricular ejection fraction after several months of beta-blocker treatment appears to have predictive value for survival. This beneficial effect of beta-blockade in chronic heart failure needs to be assessed further. The presumed benefit of beta-blockade with betaxolol (CAS 63659-18-7), a highly selective beta-blocker with long duration of action in chronic heart failure (CHF) will be assessed in BETACAR, a comparative study versus carvedilol (CAS 72956-09-3). The design of this study is provided in this article.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10337539
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10337542
To investigate whether a low heart rate is necessary to maintain improvement in myocardial function after long-term treatment with a beta-blocker in patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10338457
With beta-blocker use becoming more prevalent in treating chronic heart failure (CHF), the choice of drugs raises important theoretical and practical questions. Although the second-generation compound metoprolol is beta1-selective, the third-generation compound carvedilol is beta-nonselective, with ancillary pharmacological properties including alpha-blockade and antioxidant effects. A prospective comparison of these 2 agents can address the issue of optimal adrenergic blockade in selecting agents for therapy in CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10339027
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10342782
Although beta-adrenergic-blocking drugs suppress the renin system (RAAS), plasma angiotensin II (Ang II) responses during beta-blockade have not been defined. This study quantifies the effects of beta-blockade on the RAAS and examines its impact on prorenin processing by measuring changes in the ratio of plasma renin activity (PRA) to total renin. In normotensive (N = 14) and hypertensive (N = 16) subjects, blood pressure (BP), heart rate, PRA, plasma prorenin, plasma total renin (prorenin + PRA), ratio of PRA to total renin (%PRA), plasma Ang II, and urinary aldosterone were measured before and after 1 week of beta-blockade. Plasma renin activity, Ang II, and urinary aldosterone levels were similar for normotensive and hypertensive subjects. Plasma renin activity correlated with Ang II. Total renin, which is proportional to (pro)renin gene expression, was lower in hypertensive subjects and was inversely related to BP. Beta-blockade decreased BP and heart rate in both groups, with medium- and high-renin hypertensive subjects responding more frequently than those with low renin. Beta-blockade consistently suppressed PRA, Ang II, and aldosterone. Total renin was unchanged, thus, %PRA fell. These results indicate that beta-blockers suppress plasma angiotensin II levels, in parallel with the marked reductions in PRA and urinary aldosterone levels in normotensive and hypertensive subjects. The suppression of Ang II levels was comparable to that produced during angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. However, by reducing prorenin processing to renin, beta-blockers do not stimulate renin secretion, unlike ACE inhibitors and Ang II receptor antagonists. This unique action of beta-blockers has important implications for the treatment of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10347937
Multicenter, open and non-controlled study to evaluated the efficacy and the tolerability of a low-dose combination of two anti-hypertensive agents: a cardioselective beta-blocker, bisoprolol (2.5 and 5.0 mg) with 6.25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10349064
Carvedilol is the first beta-blocker to obtain approval for treatment of heart failure. Improvement in hemodynamic parameters was initially documented in three methodologically sound studies involving 156 patients. Follow up was limited to 16 weeks. A placebo-controlled, double-blind trial involving 1094 patients showed beneficial effects on overall mortality of 4.6% in absolute terms after a median follow up of 6.5 months. This benefit was not found in another trial involving 415 patients followed on average for 19 months. Results for symptom-based criteria conflict. When treatment is introduced very gradually, adverse effects (malaise) seem to be minor and infrequent. Carvedilol's place in the treatment of heart failure is not yet precisely documented.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10349897
Which drug is most effective as a first-line treatment for stable angina is not known.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10356008
To determine whether postal prompts to patients who have survived an acute coronary event and to their general practitioners improve secondary prevention of coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10362195
The purpose of this study was to analyze whether long-term treatment with the nonselective beta-adrenergic blocking agent carvedilol may have beneficial effects in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), who are poor responders in terms of left ventricular (LV) function and exercise tolerance to chronic treatment with the selective beta-blocker metoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10368586
The association of severe hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and coronary artery disease increases surgical morbimortality, even more in patients over 65 years. We describe a combined therapeutic approach to these diseases. A 68-year-old woman with a diagnosis of hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy was in functional class IV for angina and dyspnea despite 360 mg of propranolol a day. An echocardiogram and a complete cardiac catheterization were performed under betablocker therapy, confirming a severe hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and revealing severe stenosis in the proximal left circumflex and the proximal right coronary arteries, and a moderate lesion in the mid-left anterior descendent. They were both treated with balloon PTCA, and a 3 x 15 mm stent was placed in the circumflex and a 3.5 x 20 mm stent in the right coronary, with an excellent angiographic result. A basal hemodynamic study was then performed and A-V sequential pacing was attempted, achieving a significant decrease in the left ventricle outflow tract gradient. A DDD-R pacemaker was implanted. Echocardiographic study was performed post-implantation, and follow-up was made six months later with a new coronary angiography, hemodynamic study and a Doppler echocardiogram. At the present time A-V sequential pacing as a therapeutic option for hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and coronary angioplasty and stenting for the treatment of coronary artery disease are sufficiently established and supported to be offered as a combined therapy to patients suffering from both diseases, specially those with a higher surgical risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10371362
Atenolol use may be associated with growth retardation when given in pregnancy, although the relationship to trimester of initiation, duration of treatment, and its use as monotherapy is still uncertain. To compare the obstetric and fetal outcome between women receiving atenolol (as monotherapy) and other antihypertensive drug monotherapies, and also to investigate the effect of duration of treatment on fetal growth, we performed a retrospective cohort study of 312 pregnancies in 223 women attending an Antenatal Hypertension Clinic. Atenolol (as monotherapy) was given in 78 pregnancies (25.0%), other types of antihypertensive drugs as monotherapy were given in 53 pregnancies (17.0%), and multiple drug combinations were given in 90 pregnancies (28.8%). In 91 pregnancies (29.2%) no antihypertensive drugs were given. Atenolol was found to be associated with lower birth weight and ponderal index values, with a trend toward a higher prevalence of preterm (<37 weeks) delivery and small-for-gestational-age babies when compared to other antihypertensive drugs as monotherapy, or to no treatment. The adverse effect of atenolol was more pronounced in women receiving the drug earlier in their pregnancy, and continuing the drug for a longer duration. In conclusion, atenolol should be avoided in the early stages of pregnancy and given with caution at the later stages, as it is associated with fetal growth retardation, which is related to duration of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10376178
The effects of treatment with captopril or metoprolol on heart rate variability (HRV) were investigated in 38 patients (29 men and 9 women) with mild to moderate symptoms of heart failure due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10376609
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10376614
Metoprolol can improve haemodynamics in chronic heart failure, but survival benefit has not been proven. We investigated whether metoprolol controlled release/extended release (CR/XL) once daily, in addition to standard therapy, would lower mortality in patients with decreased ejection fraction and symptoms of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10376615
Most comparisons of antihypertensive drugs are undertaken in parallel groups. We undertook a crossover rotation of the four main classes of antihypertensive drugs, in untreated young hypertensive patients, to assess the response rate with monotherapy achieved by a systematic rotation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10377294
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10379634
To study the effect of antihypertensive medications on autonomic nervous system in patients with hypertension and sleep apnea syndrome using frequency domain measures of heart rate and blood pressure variabilities.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10381708
To assess the effectiveness of beta blockers in short term treatment for acute myocardial infarction and in longer term secondary prevention; to examine predictive factors that may influence outcome and therefore choice of drug; and to examine the clinical importance of the results in the light of current treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10382332
Calcium antagonists are widely used in the treatment of hypertension. However, few endpoint studies with calcium antagonists have been done to prove reduction in hypertensive complications. Results of the STONE, SYST-EUR and SYST-CHINA studies show that long-acting calcium antagonists are effective compared to placebo, especially in patients with isolated systolic hypertension and diabetes. Ongoing prospective and randomized trials like STOP II, INSIGHT, NORDIL, ALLHAT and ASCOT will clarify whether calcium antagonists are more effective than well-proven diuretics and betablockers. ASCOT will test the hypothesis that amlodipine is more efficacious than atenolol in preventing cardiac complications in 18,000 hypertensive patients with high coronary risk including diabetes (among them, 2,000 in Norway). The study is also randomizing the patients in a factorial design to either atorvastatin or placebo, testing the so-called lipid hypothesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385642
Only some patients show a substantial hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) reduction after propranolol, which makes it desirable to investigate drugs with greater portal hypotensive effect. The aim of this study was to investigate whether carvedilol, a nonselective beta-blocker with anti-alpha1-adrenergic activity, may cause a greater HVPG reduction than propranolol. Thirty-five cirrhotic patients had hemodynamic measurements before and after the random administration of carvedilol (n = 14), propranolol (n = 14), or placebo (n = 7). Carvedilol markedly reduced HVPG, from 19.5 +/- 1.3 to 15.4 +/- 1 mm Hg (P <.0001). This HVPG reduction was greater than after propranolol (-20.4 +/- 2 vs. -12.7 +/- 2%, P <.05). Moreover, carvedilol decreased HVPG greater than 20% of baseline values or to </=12 mm Hg in a greater proportion of patients (64% vs. 14%, P <.05). Both drugs caused similar reductions in hepatic and azygos blood flows, suggesting that the greater HVPG decrease by carvedilol was because of reduced hepatic and portocollateral resistance. Propranolol caused greater reductions in heart rate and cardiac output than carvedilol, whereas carvedilol caused a greater decrease in mean arterial pressure (-23.1 vs. -11%, P <.05). Thus, carvedilol has a greater portal hypotensive effect than propranolol in patients with cirrhosis, suggesting a greater therapeutic potential. However, it causes arterial hypotension, which calls for careful evaluation before its long-term use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385721
Azygos blood flow is an index of blood flow through gastroesophageal collateral vessels and varices in portal hypertension. Conventional measurement of azygos blood flow involves catheterization of the azygos vein. We studied the feasibility of assessing azygos blood flow with color Doppler endosonography and of monitoring the effects of vasoactive agents on azygos blood flow.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385769
To evaluate the epidemiology, prognosis, and patterns of practice in patients with chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) treated and followed at a specialized clinic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10386477
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10389533
Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus often develop micro- and macrovascular complications. In 25% of them, complications are already present at the time of diagnosis. The principal objective of the United Kingdom prospective diabetes study was to determine if good blood glucose control and adequate treatment of hypertension in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus can prevent development of diabetes-related complications. The question was also studied if they way in which this blood glucose control was achieved and the way of treating the blood pressure affected the prognosis. Blood glucose control was found to reduce the incidence of--especially--microvascular complications. Oral hypoglycaemic agents and insulin both play an important part in achieving good control. Treatment with metformin reduced mortality due to cardiovascular disease in obese patients. Strict control of the blood pressure reduced development of micro- and macrovascular complications; the mortality from diabetes-related disorders and the numbers of patients suffering a stroke or heart failure. Non of the antihypertensive drugs used (an ACE inhibitor and a beta-blocking agent) offered any advantages over the other.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10392481
To study the propranolol treatment of small abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) concerning intention to treat, side effects, and inhibition of expansion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10394257
The objective of this study was to test the influence of bisoprolol and verapamil on left ventricular filling in hypertensive patients in a 6 month randomized, double-blind trial in 54 hypertensive patients not previously treated with beta-blockers or calcium inhibitors. After administration of placebo for 14 days, an M echocardiogram of the left ventricle was recorded to determine left ventricular mass. Blood flow was evaluated by pulsed Doppler sonography. After randomization into two groups, one group received 10 mg of bisoprolol and the other 240 mg of verapamil LP in a single dose in the morning. After 2 months' treatment, the patients whose blood pressure was not well controlled were given a diuretic. Echo-Doppler was performed again by the same operator after 4-10 days on active treatment, after 6 months and after a subsequent 2 weeks of placebo for the patients treated with a single drug. The reduction in blood pressure was comparable in the two treated groups, but there was no significant decrease in left ventricular mass. Left ventricular filling was improved only in the patients receiving bisoprolol. The effect was observed immediately after the first administration and throughout the 6 months' treatment period declining slowly during the placebo wash-out. This effect appeared to be independent of any alteration in heart rate and was thought to be a specific action of this drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10404354
In the Evaluation of Losartan in the Elderly (ELITE) heart failure study, a survival benefit (primarily because of a reduction in sudden deaths) was observed in symptomatic patients treated with losartan compared with captopril.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10404854
In the present study, we assessed the antihypertensive efficacy of acebutolol 200 mg versus carvedilol 25 mg once daily, given as monotherapy for 3 months to 40 black patients (20 patients in each group, mean age 53+/-10 years, 24 women) with mean blood pressure (BP) during the day >90 and <110 mm Hg. Patients in whom blood pressure could not be controlled took medication, which was increased at 3-month intervals as follows: step 2, acebutolol 200 mg or carvedilol 25 mg plus hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg once daily; step 3, acebutolol 400 mg or carvedilol 50 mg plus hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily. Overall, significant but modest BP reduction was achieved with both beta blockers at 3 months. In the acebutolol group, 24-hour BP decreased from 142+/-15/94+/-7 mm Hg to 138+/-16/89+/-8 mm Hg (p<0.005 for diastolic BP at 3 months vs baseline). Mean day BP decreased from 145+/-15/98+/-5 mm Hg to 140+/-14/93+/-7 mm Hg (p<0.05 for systolic BP and p<0.0005 for diastolic BP at 3 months vs. baseline). In the carvedilol group, 24-hour BP decreased from 145+/-11/93+/-6 to 138+/-16/87+/-9 mm Hg (p<0.05 for systolic BP and p<0.005 for diastolic BP at 3 months vs baseline). Mean day BP decreased from 149+/-10/99+/-5 to 141+/-16/91+/-87 mm Hg (p<0.05 for systolic BP and p<0.0005 for diastolic BP at 3 months vs baseline). At 12 months, most patients required combination therapy to achieve BP control. The control (mean day diastolic BP <90 mm Hg) and response (mean day diastolic BP decrease > or =10 mm Hg) rates at 12 months were 59% and 82% in the acebutolol and 78% and 78% in the carvedilol groups, respectively. In conclusion, acebutolol or carvedilol in combination with hydrochlorothiazide, rather than acebutolol or carvedilol alone, should be considered as first-line antihypertensive therapy in black patients with mild to moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10404924
To review the evidence for clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of proven medications in the treatment and prevention of myocardial infarction (MI) in older patients; to summarize Canadian data on treatment patterns and clinical outcomes for younger and older patients with coronary heart disease; to explore the reasons for gaps between best care, based on the evidence of efficacy from trials, and usual care, based on the population effectiveness audits; and to explore potential approaches to closing the care gaps.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10404937
To review the prognosis and management of ventricular arrhythmias (VA) in persons with and without heart disease, with emphasis on older adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10406816
We examined whether the GNAS1 locus, encoding the G(s) protein alpha-subunit (G(s)alpha), is implicated in the genetic causes of essential hypertension. A common silent polymorphism (ATT-->ATC, Ile(131)) was identified in exon 5 of the G(s)alpha gene by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and DNA sequencing. This polymorphism consists of the presence (+) or absence (-) of a restriction site for FokI. Only 1 other rare allele was found in the coding region; the high GC content of the 5' noncoding sequence prevented mutation scanning of the promoter region of the gene. There was a significant difference in frequency of the FokI alleles between 268 white hypertensives (FokI+:FokI-, 51%:49%) and a matched group of 231 control subjects (FokI+:FokI-, 58%:42%) (P=0.02). Multiple regression analysis showed that the FokI genotype was independently related to the level of untreated systolic blood pressure in 294 well-characterized white hypertensives (P=0.01) but not in normotensives. The influence of the FokI allele on blood pressure (BP) response to beta-blockade was examined in 114 of the patients randomly assigned to this class of drug. Significant differences in frequency of the FokI allele were observed in the good responders (FokI+:FokI-, 62.5%:37.5%, n=36) versus the poor responders (FokI+:FokI-, 41.7%:58.3%, n=30) after beta-blocker therapy (P=0.02). In a multiple regression analysis, the G(s)alpha genotype was the only independent predictor of BP response. These results suggest that the GNAS1 locus might carry a functional variant that influences BP variation and response to beta-blockade in essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10409530
To compare sotalol and atenolol in the treatment of symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10411364
We measured the serum lipid profile, together with plasma fibrinogen and serum lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]), glucose, bilirubin, and albumin levels in 491 patients (310 men) who were referred for the management of primary dyslipidemia. All these variables have been shown to predict vascular events. The patients were not taking lipid-lowering drugs; hypertension was present in 156 (31.7%) of them. Of the hypertensive patients, 52 (33%) were not receiving any treatment to control their blood pressure. This omission was not due to a lower prevalence of established vascular disease. The treated hypertensives were divided into three groups according to their treatment: 62 were taking lipid-hostile antihypertensives (beta-blockers, thiazides), 37 were taking lipid-neutral antihypertensives (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, Ca-channel blockers, angiotensin II receptor blockers, indapamide sustained release), and five were taking lipid-friendly antihypertensives (doxazosin). Lipid-hostile antihypertensive drugs were associated with a significantly higher fibrinogen concentration when compared with untreated hypertensives or those taking lipid-neutral/lipid-friendly drugs (median values: 383, 353, and 336 mg/dL, respectively; P < .01). Lipid-neutral/lipid-friendly antihypertensive drugs were associated with lower Lp(a) levels when compared with untreated hypertensives (median values: 22 and 45 mg/dL, respectively; P < .05). The serum bilirubin level was significantly lower in the untreated hypertensives when compared with normotensives or the treated hypertensives. There were no significant differences in lipids, glucose, or albumin among the groups of hypertensives or normotensives. The influence of antihypertensive drugs on additional cardiovascular risk factors should be considered when selecting medication to reduce blood pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10411851
ACE inhibitors have been shown to potentiate the effects of exogenous bradykinin by inhibition of its breakdown. Despite this, there is little evidence that inhibition of endogenous bradykinin breakdown actually contributes to the effects of ACE inhibitors, or indeed, other inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system, such as angiotensin II type I receptor (AT(1)) antagonists, and no evidence at all that it does so in patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10412878
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships between angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity in serum and skeletal muscle to blood pressure and the long-term antihypertensive effects of fosinopril and atenolol. We examined 50 hypertensive patients randomized to receive 20 mg fosinopril or 50 mg atenolol daily for 16 weeks. ACE activity was measured in biopsy specimens from skeletal muscle. Measurements of office and ambulatory blood pressure, serum ACE, and left ventricular wall thickness were also performed. The same investigations were performed in a cross-sectional study of 50 healthy elderly men. Muscle ACE correlated inversely to blood pressure in cross-sectional analyses in both populations (p < 0.05). During atenolol treatment muscle ACE activity tended to increase (14%, p = 0.059), and this increase correlated inversely to the changes in standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure (r = -0.62, p = 0.0044, and r = 0.54, p = 0.016, respectively). Muscle ACE was also inversely correlated to left ventricular wall thickness when the two populations were pooled (r =-0.29, p = 0.0053). In the fosinopril group, muscle ACE activity was not different during treatment than at baseline (-2. 1%, p = 0.68). The inverse relationship between blood pressure and muscle ACE levels in this study indicate that muscle tissue ACE levels are influenced by haemodynamic factors in humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10413638
Current management of patients with unstable angina and non-Q wave myocardial infarction generally consists of intensive medical therapy, with angiography and revascularization sometimes limited to those who fail such therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10419077
To measure the time effect profiles of a once daily administered combination tablet felodipine-metoprolol 5/50 mg (Logimax, Astra) and amlodipine 5 mg (Norvasc, Pfizer) on blood pressure and heart rate using 24-h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10420860
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10423600
Hypertensive patients may be adversely affected by complications and other concomitant processes such as anxiety, sedation, and drug side effects. It has been suggested that some recently developed antihypertensive agents do not affect quality of life by causing adverse effects. We compared the effects of two antihypertensive drugs on quality of life: atenolol, a standard cardioselective beta-blocker, and celiprolol, one of a new class of selective beta-blockers with vasodilatory properties. One hundred thirty-two patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension were eligible to enter a 28-week, double-blind, parallel-group study. The study protocol consisted of a 4-week period on placebo and a 24-week period of dosage-adjusted treatment with either atenolol or celiprolol. We assessed both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and quality of life perception by a selected test battery that included the Bulpitt and Fletcher Quality of Life Questionnaire. Supine blood pressure fell from 167/101 (range 120/95 to 200/116) to 150/92 mm Hg (p < 0. 0001) during celiprolol treatment. This antihypertensive effect was at least as good with celiprolol as with atenolol. Quality of life perception was comparable for the two drugs although adverse effects were seen more frequently with atenolol than with celiprolol, particularly after prolonged treatment. Patient compliance was better for celiprolol than for atenolol. Our results show that the selective beta-blocker with vasodilatory property celiprolol is at least as effective as atenolol and that it is more advantageous in terms of some quality of life variables.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10423656
This was a double-blind, randomized, two-center, active-controlled, prospective, parallel study designed to evaluate the effects of nebivolol at daily doses of 5 mg on lipid and carbohydrate metabolism and on blood pressure in comparison with atenolol at daily doses of 50 mg. Normometabolic subjects with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension were recruited for this study, which included a 4-week, single-blind placebo washout phase and a 12-week double-blind treatment phase. After 12 weeks of treatment, both drugs demonstrated a significant decrease from baseline in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) apolipoprotein A-I (HDL-apoA-I) (nebivolol, P <.02; atenolol, P <.05). A significant reduction in HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) from baseline was also observed with nebivolol (P <.05). There were no significant differences between the drugs for these parameters, and the ratio low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C)-to-HDL-C did not change significantly after 12 weeks of active treatment with nebivolol or atenolol. There were no significant changes in total cholesterol, HDL (2) -C, HDL (3) -C, LDL-C, very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C), total triglycerides, HDL-triglycerides (TG), LDL-TG, VLDL-TG, total apoB, LDL-B, VLDL-B (including the ratio LDL-C-to-LDL-apoB), or Lp(a) during treatment with both drugs. No significant differences in plasma apoA-I and apoC-III as well as in apoA-I-, C-III-containing lipoprotein particles (including the apoC-III ratio) were observed between the drugs, neither before nor after each active treatment. There were no significant differences between the drugs or within each treatment group in plasma glucose, insulin, or C-peptide concentrations after a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test. Mean clinic trough sitting systolic blood pressure (SBP)/diastolic blood pressure (DBP) significantly decreased from 150/98 mm Hg at baseline to 141/90 mm Hg at termination for nebivolol and from 160/99 mm Hg at baseline to 145/88 mm Hg at termination for atenolol. No significant between-treatment differences were observed for the mean clinic trough sitting SBP/DBP. Both drugs significantly increased the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) N-terminal plasma levels, whereas no changes were observed in ANF C-terminal plasma concentrations. A significant decrease (P <. 05) in the plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone levels was observed after administration of both drugs. A significant decrease (P <.05) in plasma cortisol levels was observed only after atenolol treatment. The incidence of adverse events reported during nebivolol treatment was comparable to that observed during atenolol treatment. Heart rate was significantly reduced by both drugs. There were no significant changes in hematology, biochemistry, or urinalysis studies. Neither nebivolol nor atenolol adversely affected lipid or carbohydrate metabolism in normometabolic hypertensive patients. Both treatments demonstrated adequate and similar antihypertensive effects and were well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10424315
The use of the decongestant pseudoephedrine has been cautioned in patients with arterial hypertension, due to the possible rise in blood pressure induced by the sympathostimulatory properties of the drug. This effect could be enhanced in hypertensives treated with beta-blockers, in whom the vasoconstrictor effect of alpha-adrenergic stimulation is unbalanced. The purpose of this study was to investigate the cardiovascular response to pseudoephedrine in hypertensive patients treated with different types of beta-blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10427351
The efficacy of 5-hydroxytryptamine 1B/1D (5-HT 1B/1D) agonists is related to their inhibitory effects on neurogenic inflammation, mediated through serotoninergic control mechanisms. Recently, a series of oral second generation 5-HT 1B/1D agonists (eletriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan and zolmitriptan) have been developed and are reviewed in this paper. Their in vitro and in vivo pharmacological properties, clinical efficacy, drug interactions, and adverse effects are evaluated and compared to the gold standard in the treatment of acute migraine, sumatriptan.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10429698
To compare the effects of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) creation with those of endoscopic treatment with or without propranolol administration (i.e, conventional treatment) on recurrent bleeding, encephalopathy, and mortality by using meta-analysis of 11 published randomized clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10439497
To elucidate the effect on blood pressure and blood lipids of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril), and a beta-receptor blocking agent (atenolol), given alone or in combination with a cholesterol reducing drug, the beta-hydroxy-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor pravastatin, in patients who were also encouraged to improve their lifestyle.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10441090
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10445794
Beta-blockers have been shown to reduce portal pressure in patients with cirrhosis and limit the development of portosystemic shunts in portal hypertensive animals. Thus, a randomized double-blind trial was conducted to evaluate propranolol in the prevention of the development of large oesophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis without varices or with small varices.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10448805
To examine whether antihypertensive medication use can affect the occurrence and progression of dementia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10449213
Fixed-dose combination antihypertensive therapy has received interest since the publication of the JNC-VI report. Relatively few head-to-head comparative studies between fixed-dose combinations and first-line monotherapies for hypertension have been published. The objective of this study was to conduct a meta-analysis of various first-line monotherapies and the fixed-dose combination of amlodipine/benazepril. The results of the meta-analysis were used to compare the efficacy and safety of the first-line monotherapies with amlodipine/benazepril. The meta-analysis included 82 studies that included 110 treatment groups (cohorts). The study compared nine different monotherapies and one combination therapy (amlodipine/benazepril). Of the 82 studies, 22 were placebo-controlled and 60 were active treatment controlled. The mean absolute decrease in supine diastolic blood pressure (BP) ranged from 9.7 to 13.3 mm Hg with verapamil showing the greatest effect and captopril the least (13.3 +/- 3.0 mm Hg; 9.7 +/- 2.9 mm Hg, respectively). When studies were weighted by sample size, atenolol, verapamil, lisinopril and amlodipine/benazepril showed the greatest BP effect. When studies were weighted by variance, amlodipine/benazepril and atenolol showed the greatest BP effect. The percentage of patients controlled on therapy ranged from 54% to 79%. Lisinopril and amlodipine/benazepril showed the greatest percent controlled. The overall incidence of adverse effects ranged from 12.1% to 41.8% with lisinopril having the lowest and nifedipine having the highest incidence. The overall incidence of adverse effects resulting in drug discontinuance ranged from 1.3% to 10.7%, with amlodipine/benazepril having the lowest and nifedipine having the highest incidence. The results of the meta-analysis indicate that amlodipine/benazepril produces above average reductions in BP with a lower than average incidence of overall side effects and the lowest incidence of adverse effects resulting in drug discontinuance. The fixed-dose combination of amlodipine/benazepril achieves its goal of effective BP lowering with a minimum of significant side effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10449888
Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) represents an independent risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and normalization of left ventricular mass has become a desirable goal of antihypertensive treatment. In a randomized, double-blind study the angiotensin II (AT(1) receptor) antagonist valsartan (Diovan((R)); 80 mg/160 mg q.d.) was compared with the beta-blocker atenolol (50 mg/100 mg q.d.) over 8 months in predominantly previously untreated patients with essential hypertension and LVH. Sixty-nine patients were randomized, of whom 58 were evaluated with echocardiographic data. After 8 months of treatment in the atenolol group [n = 8 with additional hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ)], initial blood pressure was reduced from 160/103 to 147/92 mm Hg (p < 0.0001), and in the valsartan group (n = 9 with additional HCTZ) blood pressure decreased from 163/101 to 146/90 mm Hg (p < 0.0001). Left ventricular mass index decreased from 127 to 117 g/m(2) in the atenolol group and from 127 to 106 g/m(2) in the valsartan group. Long-term treatment with valsartan resulted in a significant reduction of LVH in patients with essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10454307
We selected 73 consecutive patients without myocardial-infarction, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or hypertension complaining of effort chest discomfort/dyspnoea, and/or reporting exercise ischaemic ECG changes, and submitted them to simultaneous dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) and 99mTc tetrofosmin SPECT (T SPECT) and to coronary angiography to evaluate the clinical impact of intraventricular obstruction (IVO) during dobutamine infusion. Sixteen patients (22%, 7 males, mean age+/-SD 63+/-8 years, group 1) developed IVO (mean CW Doppler velocity+/-SD: 3.8+/-1.0 m/s) and 57 (41 males, mean age+/-SD 63+/-10 years, group 2) did not. The two groups had similar incidence of angina and ischaemic ECG changes at exercise tolerance test. DSE did not demonstrate wall motion abnormalities in any group 1 patient while T SPECT showed a perfusion defect in the only one with coronary artery disease (CAD). DSE reproduced symptoms in a higher percentage of patients with than without IVO, while there was no statistical difference in the reproduction of ischaemic ECG changes, despite CAD prevalence was much lower in group 1. Group 1 patients remained asymptomatic on beta-blockers at 12-month follow-up. Dobutamine-induced IVO, by reproducing symptoms, suggests that IVO plays a role in the clinical setting in patients without CAD complaining of unexplained reduced effort tolerance who should undergo DSE.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10455479
To compare quality of life with the selective beta1-blocker bisoprolol and the thiazide diuretic bendrofluazide in patients with mild to moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10457878
Changes in heart rate, systolic, diastolic and mean blood pressure were measured after extubation in 60 ASA Grade I and II patients to assess the effects of diltiazem (0.2 mg kg-1), verapamil (0.05 mg kg-1) and metoprolol (0.02 mg kg-1) given as a bolus 2 min before tracheal extubation. All the haemodynamic variables measured increased significantly after extubation in the control and diltiazem groups when compared with the base-line recordings (P < 0.05). Metoprolol effectively blocked the increases in heart rate after extubation and the increase in blood pressure in this group was less when compared with the control group (P < 0.05). Verapamil alleviated the increase in both heart rate and blood pressure. However, profound hypotension and bradycardia requiring therapy, occurred in the verapamil group. For this reason, careful observation is necessary when using verapamil and the routine use of this drug in patients with coronary artery disease requires further studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10466352
Although calcium-channel blockers and angiotensin-I-converting enzyme inhibitors are often used for treatment of hypertension in the elderly in Japan compared to those in the United States and in European countries, there have been few investigations on the prognosis of the elderly receiving these antihypertensive treatments. The Research Group for "Guidelines on the Treatment of Hypertension in the Elderly" collaborated with the Comprehensive Research Projects on Aging and Health group of the Ministry of Health and Welfare of Japan in performing a 3-year survey on the outcome of 700 hypertensive elderly outpatients (> or = 60 years) receiving treatment of antihypertensive drugs. Antihypertensive drugs including dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blockers, beta blockers, angiotensin-I-converting enzyme inhibitors, diltiazem, diuretics and old-type antihypertensives (hydralazine, budralazine, and centrally acting drugs such as clonidine, methyldopa and guanabenz) were administered to 71.3%, 30.4%, 26.2%, 14.0%, 8.6%, and 6.4% of the 642 elderly patients surveyed for three years, at the time of registration, respectively. Morbidity and mortality rates of total cerebro-cardiovascular diseases, stroke, and heart diseases, were 27.6 and 7.81/1,000 patient-years, 15.1 and 3.6/1,000 patient-years, 10.4 and 4.2/1,000 patient-years, respectively. These results were similar or even better than those of megatrials of antihypertensive treatments for elderly patients in Europe and United States. After adjustment for potential confounding factors, multiple logistic analysis revealed that a past history of ischemic heart disease, use of the old-type antihypertensive drugs, male gender, and diastolic high blood pressure were independent risk factors for the morbidity of cerebro-cardiovascular diseases taking the group of non-cerebro-cardiovascular disease as the reference group. We also identified 22 cases of newly occurred malignancies including 7 fatal cases. However, none of the antihypertensives was significantly related to the occurrence of malignancies. These results lead support to the tendencies in the use of antihypertensive drugs in Japan.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10466460
The aim of this study was to determine whether pulse pressure is a risk factor for coronary artery disease using data from the MRC trial of treatment of mild hypertension, and whether the effect of anti-hypertensive drug therapy on pulse pressure may be a determinant of outcome in treated patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10467196
Chronic heart failure causes disturbances in ventilation and pulmonary gas transfer that participate in limiting peak exercise oxygen uptake (VO(2p )). The beta-adrenergic receptor blocker carvedilol improves left ventricular (LV) function and not VO(2p). This study was aimed at investigating the pulmonary response to changes in LV performance produced by carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10485716
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10486674
During insulin resistance, sympathetic nerve activity is increased. However insulin resistance is a common feature of obesity and essential hypertension, it is unclear if chronic hyperinsulinemia per se contributes to sympathetic overactivation. The purpose of our study was to explore++ the relationships between chronic hyperinsulinemia and heart rate variability (HRV), a non-intensive tool to assess autonomic function, in obese and hypertensive subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10490566
To investigate the occurrence of heart failure complications, and to identify variables that predict heart failure in patients with (recurrent) persistent atrial fibrillation, treated aggressively with serial electrical cardioversion and antiarrhythmic drugs to maintain sinus rhythm.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10495686
MERIT-HF study was a multicenter, double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study which enrolled 3.991 class II-IV heart failure patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction < or = 40% who were already treated by optimal standard therapy (diuretic + ACE inhibitor or equivalent). Three thousand nine hundred ninety one patients were enrolled in the study: 2.001 received a placebo; 1.990 were assigned to metoprolol administration at the initial dose of 25 mg/day (12.5 mg for class III-IV patients) and progressively increased to a maximum daily dose of 200 mg. The study was prematurely stopped because, after an observation period of 3.980 patients x years, it demonstrated a significant mortality reduction in the treated group. All cause mortality was reduced by 34% (7.2% per patient x year vs 11%). Sudden death mortality and mortality due to progression of heart failure were reduced by 41% and 49%, respectively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10496201
Chronic heart failure (CHF) is an increasing burden to health care. Pharmacological treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and beta blockers improve survival and reduce hospitalizations in patients with low left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). Despite these therapies, morbidity and mortality remains problematic. Furthermore, 30% to 50% of patients with CHF have a preserved LVEF. It is not known if treatments are of benefit in this group.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10498130
This study provides data on post-hospitalization medication treatment trends for unstable angina between 1990 and 1995. We conducted an observational cohort study at the Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System (VAPSHCS). Computerized records of hospital discharges and cardiac catheterizations were used to identify unstable angina diagnoses among veterans between 1990 and 1995. Discharge medications issued within 90 days after discharge were ascertained from computerized outpatient pharmacy records. Of the 1,100 veterans discharged with unstable angina, 885 (80%) filled a prescription through the VAPSHCS within 90 days after discharge. Neither use of aspirin nor use of beta blockers increased between 1990 and 1995: overall use averaged 76% for aspirin (78% of those without potential contraindications) and 32% for beta blockers (36% of those without potential contraindications). Use of non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists--primarily diltiazem--decreased from 57% to 40% (p <0.01), whereas use of dihydropyridine calcium antagonists increased from 12% to 26% (p <0.01). Thus, pharmacy records indicated that aspirin use was high although it was lower than expected, possibly due to ready availability outside the VAPSHCS pharmacy. The low frequency of beta-blocker use and the increasing reliance on dihydropyridine calcium antagonists through 1995 to treat unstable angina may be an opportunity to improve veteran care according to Agency for Health Care Policy Research recommendations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10503802
An important but difficult task in the design of a clinical trial to compare time to failure between two treatment groups is determination of the number of patients required to achieve a specified power of the test. Because patients typically enter the trial serially and are followed until they fail or withdraw from the study or until the study is terminated, the power of the test depends on the accrual pattern, the noncompliance rate, and the withdrawal rate in addition to the actual survival distributions of the two groups. Incorporating interim analyses and the possibility of early stopping into the trial increases its complexity, and although normal approximations have been developed for computing the significance level of the test when the log-rank or other rank statistics are used, there are no reliable analytic approximations for evaluating the power of the test. This article presents methods, based on Monte Carlo simulations and recent advances in group sequential testing with time-to-event responses, to choose appropriate test statistics, compute power and sample size at specified alternatives, check the adequacy of commonly used normal approximations of the type I error probability, and assess the performance of different interim analysis strategies. It also presents two computer programs implementing these methods.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10508208
The first reaction of the catabolic pathway of cholesterol is catalyzed by CYP7 and serves as the rate-limiting step and major site of regulation of bile acid synthesis in the liver. A common A to C substitution at position -204 of the promoter of CYP7 gene has been associated with variations in plasma LDL-cholesterol concentrations but the effect of this polymorphism is unknown in the general population. The aim of the present study was therefore to investigate the association of this polymorphism to lipoprotein levels in a population-based sample of 1139 male and 1191 female Framingham Offspring participants. In men, the C variant was associated with higher plasma concentrations of LDL-cholesterol and this association remained significant after adjustment for familial relationship, age, BMI, smoking, alcohol intake, the use of beta-blockers, and apoE genotype. The C variant was also associated with an increased TC/HDL ratio in men. Variance components analysis indicated that allelic variability at nucleotide -204 of the CYP7 gene and polymorphism of the apoE gene accounted for 1 and 5% of the variation of plasma LDL-cholesterol concentrations, respectively. In women, however, there was no relationship between LDL-cholesterol and the A-204C polymorphism but subjects homozygous for the CC genotype had significantly lower triglyceride levels than heterozygotes. Moreover, no significant relationship was found between the A-204C variants and lipoprotein particle diameter or the prevalence of coronary heart disease in both genders. Thus, our results show that the A-204C polymorphism in the CYP7 gene is associated with statistically significant variations in LDL-C and triglyceride concentrations in men and women, respectively, but the cumulative effects of these variations on atherosclerotic risk remain uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10509550
The aim of the present study was to assess the efficacy and tolerability of a calcium antagonist/beta-blocker fixed combination tablet used as first-line antihypertesnive therapy in comparison with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and placebo. Patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension (diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 110 mm Hg at the end of a 4-week run-in period) were randomly allocated to a double-blind, 12-week treatment with either a combination tablet of felodipine and metoprolol (Logimax), 5/50 mg daily (n = 321), enalapril, 10 mg daily (n = 321), or placebo (n = 304), with the possibility of doubling the dose after 4 or 8 weeks of treatment if needed (diastolic blood pressure remaining >90 mm Hg). The combined felodipine-metoprolol treatment controlled blood pressure (diastolic < or =90 mm Hg 24 h after dose) in 72% of patients after 12 weeks, as compared with 49% for enalapril and 30% for placebo. A dose adjustment was required in 38% of patients receiving the combination, in 63% of patients allocated to placebo, and 61% of enalapril-treated patients. The overall incidence of adverse events was 54.5% during felodipine-metoprolol treatment; the corresponding values for enalapril and placebo were 51.7% and 47.4%, respectively. Withdrawal of treatment due to adverse events occurred in 18 patients treated with the combination, in 10 patients on enalapril, and 12 patients on placebo. No significant change in patients' well-being was observed in either of the three study groups. These results show that a fixed combination tablet of felodipine and metoprolol allows to normalize blood pressure in a substantially larger fraction of patients than enalapril given alone. This improved efficacy is obtained without impairing the tolerability. The fixed-dose combination of felodipine and metoprolol, therefore, may become a valuable option to initiate antihypertensive treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10510985
To assess the role of treated diastolic blood pressure (DBP) level in stroke, coronary heart disease (CHD), and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in patients with isolated systolic hypertension (ISH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10511135
Elevated levels of endothelin-1 (ET-1) and von Willebrand factor (vWF), both markers indicative of endothelial function, are associated with hypertension. In a randomized open study we investigated the effect of antihypertensive treatment with the alpha-blocker doxazosin (n = 23) or the beta-blocker atenolol (n = 22) for 22 weeks on circulating levels of ET-1 and vWF in middle-aged men with essential hypertension. Blood pressure reduction was satisfactorily achieved with both drugs, although the decrease in the atenolol group was larger than that in the doxazosin group. A reduction in the levels of vWF occurred in both groups, being more pronounced in the alpha-blocker group compared with the decrease on beta blockers, p = 0.004 and p = 0.056, respectively. In the alpha-blocker group, there was a significant correlation (r = 0.50, p = 0.022) between the reduction in diastolic blood pressure and the decline in vWF. A highly significant decrease in plasma ET-1 was obtained during beta blockade (p = 0.007), whereas no significant change occurred within the alpha-blocker group. There was, however, no correlation between the decrease in blood pressure and the reduction in ET-1. The different favorable effects of alpha and beta blockers on endothelial function expressed as vWF and ET-1, could indicate that the effects are probably related not only to the blood pressure per se, but also to the different pharmacologic mechanisms of the drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10513787
The effects of a beta blocker (atenolol), a calcium antagonist (amlodipine), and a nitrate (isosorbide-5-mononitrate) on anginal symptoms in 10 patients with syndrome X were assessed in a crossover, double-blind, randomized trial. Only atenolol was found to significantly improve chest pain episodes, suggesting that it should be the preferred drug when starting pharmacologic treatment of patients with syndrome X.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10517737
We evaluated whether angiotensin II (Ang II) influenced intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 expression by human vascular endothelial cells derived from umbilical cord veins (HUVECs) and plasma soluble ICAM-1 levels in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10523477
Nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) is a once-daily formulation of nifedipine that provides stable plasma concentrations over the entire 24 h dosing interval. Two-hundred and one patients with Canadian Cardiovascular Society class II to III angina who were on 50 mg of atenolol yet still experiencing angina symptoms were randomized to receive either placebo or nifedipine GITS 30, 60 or 90 mg/day. After four weeks of treatment, the changes in time from baseline to onset of 1 mm ST segment depression in the 183 eligible patients were 26.7+/-10.2 s, 40.9+/-11.3 s, 63.2+/-12.9 s and 70.3+/-12.6 for the placebo, and 30, 60 and 90 mg/day groups, respectively. These differences were significant (P<0.05) for the 60 and 90 mg/day groups compared with placebo and for the 60 mg/day group compared with the 30 mg/day group. The times to onset of pain and termination of exercise showed similar prolongation but did not achieve statistical significance. During the one-year open label phase of the study, patients exhibited statistically significant improvements in the time to onset of ST segment depression, time to anginal pain and time to termination of exercise at a mean dose of 52.3 mg/day of nifedipine GITS. Adverse events were primarily vasodilatory in nature. This study supports the use of nifedipine GITS in patients with chronic stable angina inadequately controlled on beta-blocker alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10523946
Heart failure due to decreased left ventricular function is a condition with a considerable morbidity and mortality. Until recently beta-blocker treatment has been considered contraindicated in this condition. During the last 20 years a number of investigations have pointed to a possible positive effect of beta-blocker treatment in chronic heart failure and recently several major randomized trials have shown a significantly increased survival during beta-blocker treatment. This review summarizes the background for the use of beta-blocker treatment in chronic heart failure patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10524661
Polypharmacy (the prescription of more than one therapy for a single patient) and subcutaneous (s.c.) sumatriptan tolerability were prospectively studied in 12,339 migraineurs, each followed for up to 1 year. Inclusion/exclusion criteria were minimal and mirrored United States Imitrex labeling. Drug usage and compliance monitoring were automatically interfaced with prescription refill. Concomitant drugs were used by 79% of patients, with analgesics, antidepressants, and sedatives used most commonly. No adverse interactions between sumatriptan and neurological drugs were found, possibly reflecting relative inability of the former to cross the blood-brain barrier. No difference in cardiovascular adverse events was associated with oral contraceptive use, which was more common than expected. No other drug class influenced adverse event probability, although sample sizes for these comparisons was sometimes <400 patients. This study confirms the prevalence of polypharmacy in migraine, identifies the drugs used, and concludes that, on a population basis, the tolerability of s.c. sumatriptan, when used according to labeled instructions, is unaffected by these concomitant drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10524662
In a multicenter study, a long-term analysis was made of the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of subcutaneous (s.c.) sumatriptan in the acute treatment of migraine attacks over a period of up to 18 months. A total of 2263 patients took part in the study, all able to perform their own acute treatment of migraine attacks at home by s.c. administration of 6 mg of sumatriptan. A headache diary was used by each patient to record the various migraine parameters before the injection and 1 h and 2 h after it. A total of 43,691 attacks were treated and analyzed during the study period from October 1991 to June 1993. Therapy was successful in 89.5% of attacks. Freedom from headache was achieved in 71.0% of cases. In 22.7% of the attacks a second injection was administered on recurrence of the headache; 82.9% of the patients achieved an intraindividual therapy success rate ranging from over 80% to 100%. In the course of treatment there was no change in either the therapy success rate or in the frequency of attacks. Some 4.9% of the patients withdrew from the study because of insufficient efficacy or adverse events. A total of 44.5% of patients reported adverse events, and these were rated serious in the case of 1.7%. S.c. administration of sumatriptan for acute migraine therapy is an effective treatment method, with reliable action, that can be used with good tolerability provided the contraindications are taken into account.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10525515
To assess the safety and efficacy of carvedilol when administered to heart failure patients already receiving amiodarone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10525926
Atrial fibrillation is in 20-50% the most frequent dysrhythmia after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and a possible cause for hemodynamical complications and prolongation off the medical treatment in patients. Therefore, the effect of beta-blocking with metoprolol for prevention of supraventricular arrhythmias (SVA) was investigated in a prospective and randomized trial. 200 patients after CABG were randomized in a drug and control group (average age 63.2 years, 154 male, 46 female). Patients of the drug group (n=100) were treated with metoprolol (1mg/kg/BW) beginning on day one after operation, whereas patients of the control group (n=100) received therapy only in case of occurrence of atrial fibrillation. ECG, blood pressure, and electrolyte concentrations were measured regularly until the tenth day after surgery. Reasons for exclusion were an ejection fraction (< 30%, SA- and AV-block or simultaneous application of epinephrine and metoprolol. There were no significant differences between the patients of drug and control group with respect to age, sex ejection fraction, previous medication, number and type of bypass grafts, cardiopulmonary bypass time, and perioperative ischemic events. However, a statistically significant difference was seen in the occurrence of supraventricular arrhythmias in both groups, 4 patients of the therapy group (4%) in contrast to 37 patients of the control (37%) developed supraventricular arrhythmias during the postoperative observation period (p<0.0001). Both groups differed in total time of hospital stay by 1.5 days (control group: 9.83+/-2.88 days; drug group: 8.42+/-2.81 days), which was statistically significant (p<0.05). All patients of the drug group could be discharged with a stable sinus rhythm, whereas 7 patients of the control group were discharged with persistent atrial fibrillation. The difference was statistically significant as well (p<0.01). Neither typical side effects of metoprolol, nor AV-blocks, bradycardia (f<60/min) or symptoms of low blood pressure could be observed. The conclusion of this trial is a recommendation for a preventive application of 50mg metoprolol/day after coronary artery bypass surgery, which can reduce the incidence of SVA as well as the hospital stay statistically significant.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10529932
To compare the 2.0% dorzolamide/0.5% timolol fixed combination (COSOPT; Merck & Co., Whitehouse Station, NJ) to 0.5% timolol plus 2.0% pilocarpine given concomitantly, and to determine patient preference, tolerability, and impact on daily life in patients with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10535718
Day-activity rhythms of heart rate and blood pressure are thought to be mediated mainly through the sympathetic nervous system and may have greater amplitudes in patients with hypertension owing to increased daytime and largely normal nighttime values. Drug-induced nighttime hypotension in patients with chronic hypertension has been associated with the precipitation of cardiac failure and a fall in cerebral flow. The authors examined the effects of a single dose and of a 4-week treatment with different classes of antihypertensive drugs on ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) in 10 patients with mild hypertension. Data were assessed by polynomial analysis (Harvard Graphics 3). A single oral dose of enalapril 10 mg, amlodipine 5 mg, carvedilol 25 mg, and celiprolol 200 mg produced a mean reduction of 24-hour ABP compared to placebo of, respectively, 24/11, 11/5, 13/6, and 12/5 mm Hg (p values between <0.02 and <0.001). With enalapril, amlodipine, and carvedilol, between-subject variability contributed significantly to the overall variability in the measurements (p values between 0.05 and 0.01 versus zero), whereas with celiprolol this was not so. Although the beta blockers reduced daytime blood pressures similarly to the ACE inhibitor or the calcium channel blocker, they did not reduce nighttime blood pressures. These results were confirmed by an 8-week crossover trial comparing enalapril 10 mg daily with celiprolol 200 mg daily in the same group of patients. The authors conclude (1) that beta blockers produce a more stable reduction of blood pressure in patients with mild hypertension less affected by pressor effects through the sympathetic nervous system; (2) that beta blockers, unlike ACE inhibitors and calcium channel blockers, do not give rise to nighttime hypotension in this category of patients; and (3) that the selective beta blocker celiprolol may even perform better in these respects than the nonselective beta blocker carvedilol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10539811
The efficacy of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in treating heart failure is well established, but there is concern that these agents are underutilized. Proper treatment is contingent both on appropriate medication dosing by the physician and on patient compliance with therapy. This study examined dosing and compliance with ACE inhibitors in routine clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10539815
Although angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy reduces mortality rates in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), it may also cause decreased renal function. Little information is available to predict which patients are at highest risk for this complication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10545432
Atrial fibrillation (AF) can be initiated by ectopic beats originating from the atrial or great venous tissues. This study investigated the anatomic characteristics and electrophysiological properties of pulmonary veins (PVs), as well as the possible mechanisms and response to drugs of ectopic foci, and assessed the effects of radiofrequency (RF) ablation on AF initiated by ectopic beats originating from PVs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10546124
The prospective evaluation and follow-up of 39 consecutive subjects with VT/VF, 6 of whom, with cardiac arrest (CA), are reported. Patients were enrolled in a specific staged-care approach protocol, which included coronary arteriography (CAR) and ventriculography (VC), in order to exclude the need of cardiac surgery, including coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), with and without left ventricular aneurysmectomy (LVA). The protocol included inducibility of VT/VF, which was verified by programmed electrical stimulation (PES) in control conditions and after antiarrhythmic therapy (ADT), to assess persistent inducibility and mainly to verify the hemodynamic sequelae of VT. VT that showed poor hemodynamic tolerance was treated with ICD, while well-tolerated VT was treated by ADT or ablation when indicated. Furthermore, PES was obtained after surgical procedures. As a first step, the patients were assigned to receive amiodarone (AMIO) (200-400 mg/daily) in the presence of EF% < 30% or contraindication to sotalol, (Group A), or sotalol (SOT) (80-140 mg/daily) in the presence of EF > or = 31%. (Group C). Conversely, in case of recurrences, patients were assigned to receive AMIO (200-300 mg/daily) plus metoprolol (MET) (20-100 mg/daily), (Group B) or, in case of intolerance to beta-blockers, to AMIO plus mexiletine (MEX) (200 mg/daily) (Group D). The four groups were similar for the type of VA, with recurrent ventricular tachycardia (RVT) being the most frequent one. The most frequent underlying cardiac disease of VA in this study was post-AMI CAD, with a rate of over 60% in all four groups. Single- and two-vessel lesions were found at CAR in various patients in all four groups, in 5/13 (38%) in Group A, in 8/14 (57%) in Group B, in 5/7 (71%) in Group C, and in 3/5 (60%) in Group D. Cardiac surgery was performed in a similar and limited number of patients in all four groups, in 4/13 (30%) in Group A, in 4/14 (35%) in Group B, in 2/7 (28%) in Group C, and in 2/5 (40%) in Group D. In 8/39 (20.5%) of the patients who underwent CABG, there was no operative or late mortality; 4/39 (10.2%) received CABG and LVA, and two died. For the amiodarone plus metoprolol and sotalol patients only, PES showed a lower residual inducibility, in comparison to the amiodarone and amiodarone + mexiletine groups. In the entire group, 7 out of 26 (27%) were still inducibile at PES while in 19/26 (64%) of the patients, an apparently effective treatment could be found, documenting the relative usefulness of PES. Recurrence rate was the highest in the amiodarone + mexiletine group and in patients with previous CA. Our data show the potential utility and limitations of ADT, even using the most effective antiarrhythmic drugs and association of drugs, mainly because of the high recurrence rate of VT observed in the present study, even in non-inducible patients [14/39 (36%)]. In conclusion, in a prospective and staged-care approach protocol of management of VT/VF patients, only a few patients with VT/VF benefited from cardiac surgery. PES could still play a role in the evaluation of the most effective ADT. Amiodarone + metoprolol seems to be the most effective ADT in these patients. Nevertheless, a high recurrence rate was observed in this patient population, even with an aggressive protocol, in the short follow-up period of 12 +/- 8 months, confirming recent data on the superiority of ICD to ADT, in patients with frequent recurrences or hemodynamically poorly-tolerated VT. In these patients, ICD therapy should definitively be preferred to ADT.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10548187
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of two acute-care management strategies on the frequency of jugular venous desaturation and refractory intracranial hypertension and on long-term neurologic outcome in patients with severe head injury.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10551702
This study was performed to compare the long-term clinical efficacy of treatment with metoprolol versus carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10552188
Clinical drawbacks of beta-blocker treatment in stable angina have motivated researchers to provide alternative heart rat lowering agents, such as tedisamil which additionally exerts anti-ischemic and antiarrhythmic effects by blockade of cellular repolarizing K(+) currents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10552234
A retrospective study was conducted on 90 patients with episodic vertigo that could be related to migraine as the most probable pathomechanism. Since the majority of the patients did not fulfill the criteria of the International Headache Society (IHS) for basilar migraine, the diagnosis was substantiated by disease course, medical efficacy in treating (ergotamines) and preventing (metoprolol, flunarizine) attacks, ocular motor abnormalities in the symptom-free interval, and careful exclusion of the most relevant differential diagnoses, such as transient ischemic attacks, Menire's disease, and vestibular paroxysmia. The following clinical features were elaborated. The initial manifestation could occur at any time throughout life, with a peak in the fourth decade in men and a "plateau" between the third and fifth decades in women. The duration of rotational (78%) and/or to-and-fro vertigo (38%) could last from a few seconds to several hours or, less frequently, even days; duration of a few minutes or of several hours was most frequent. Monosymptomatic audiovestibular attacks (78%) occurred as vertigo associated with auditory symptoms in only 16%. Vertigo was not associated with headache in 32% of the patients. In the symptom-free interval 66% of the patients showed mild central ocular motor signs such as vertical (48%) and/or horizontal (22%) saccadic pursuit, gaze-evoked nystagmus (27%), moderate positional nystagmus (11%), and spontaneous nystagmus (11%). Combinations with other forms of migraine were found in 52%. Thus, migraine is a relevant differential diagnosis for episodic vertigo. According to the criteria of the IHS, only 7.8% of these patients would be diagnosed as having basilar migraine. However, to ensure that at least those presenting with monosymptomatic episodic vertigo (78% in our study) receive effective treatment, we propose the use of the more appropriate term "vestibular migraine."

Abstract for pubmed ID 10555240
To assess the importance of long-term doctor-patient relationship, and to assess the effect of long-term treatment with beta-blockers of hypertensive women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10557382
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10558453
(1) In trials involving hypertensive non diabetic patients under 65, some diuretics and betablockers have prevented strokes, without conferring protection from coronary events or death. In one trial captopril had an effect comparable to that of diuretics or betablockers in terms of overall cardiovascular prevention, but was a little less effective in preventing strokes. (2) In trials involving hypertensive subjects over 65, some diuretics and betablockers have reduced the risk of stroke, coronary events, heart failure, and death. In one trial a diuretic was superior to a betablocker in terms of preventive efficacy and adverse effects. Nitrendipine, in combination with other antihypertensive drugs, prevented strokes in one trial. (3) In a trial involving hypertensive diabetic patients, captopril and atenolol reduced the risk of stroke, heart failure and worsening of retinal disease, without preventing coronary events or death. In two trials coronary events were more frequent on dihydropyridine than on an angiotensin-coverting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. (4) In one trial a diuretic reduced the risk of relapse after stroke, even in patients without severe hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10561948
Two preparations of 50 mg and 100 mg atenolol tablets were evaluated for their bioequivalence in twelve healthy Thai subjects (Prenolol, Berlin Pharmaceutical Industry, as the test formulations vs Tenormin, Zeneca Limited, as the reference formulations). A single oral dose of each preparation was administered in a randomized two-way crossover design, starting from either 50 mg of Prenolol vs Tenormin, thereafter, either 100 mg of Prenolol vs Tenormin. The washout period between each treatment was one week. Atenolol plasma concentrations were determined by the HPLC technique with fluorometric detection. Pharmacokinetic parameters were analyzed by the noncompartmental pharmacokinetic method using TOPFIT. The means and parametric 90 per cent confidence intervals of the ratio [Prenolol/Tenormin] of AUC0-infinity and Cmax were 1.16 (1.05-1.27) and 1.23 (1.07-1.38) for 50 mg preparations and 1.10 (1.00-1.20) and 1.13 (0.95-1.31) for 100 mg preparations, respectively. These values were well within the acceptable bioequivalence ranges. The mean differences of Tmax [Prenolol-Tenormin] were less than 20 per cent for both 50 mg and 100 mg preparations. Hence, Prenolol and Tenormin were bioequivalent with respect to the rate and extent of absorption.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10569322
The prognostic significance of ambulatory ischemia, alone and in relation to ischemia during exercise was assessed in 686 patients (475 men) with chronic stable angina pectoris taking part in the Angina Prognosis Study In Stockholm (APSIS), who had 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic registrations and exercise tests at baseline (n = 678) and after 1 month (n = 607) of double-blind treatment with metoprolol or verapamil. Ambulatory electrocardiograms were analyzed for ventricular premature complexes and ST-segment depression. During a median follow-up of 40 months, 29 patients died of cardiovascular (CV) causes, 27 had a nonfatal myocardial infarction, and 89 underwent revascularization. Patients with CV death had more episodes (median 5 vs. 1; p<0.01) and longer median duration (24 vs. 3 minutes; p<0.01) of ST-segment depression than patients without events. For those who had undergone revascularization, the duration was also longer (12 vs. 3 minutes; p<0.05). In a multivariate Cox model including sex, history of previous myocardial infarction, hypertension, and diabetes, the duration of ST-segment depression independently predicted CV death. When exercise testing was included, ambulatory ischemia carried additional prognostic information only among patients with ST-segment depression > or =2 mm during exercise. When the treatment given and treatment effects on ambulatory ischemia were added to the Cox model, no significant impact on prognosis was found. Ventricular premature complexes carried no prognostic information. Thus, in patients with stable angina pectoris, ischemia during ambulatory monitoring showed independent prognostic importance regarding CV death. Ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring and exercise testing provide complementary information, but only among patients with marked ischemia during exercise. Treatment reduced ambulatory ischemia, but the short-term treatment effects did not significantly influence prognosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10569324
Abnormal autonomic nervous system impairment in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) has a circadian pattern with the greatest manifestation in the morning hours; it probably plays an important role in the pathogenesis of cardiac arrhythmias and acute ischemic syndromes. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors improve autonomic function in patients with AMI, but the circadian pattern of this effect has not been studied. Heart rate variability-normalized frequency domain indexes were assessed 5 days (baseline) after the onset of uncomplicated AMI and 30 days after therapy with quinapril (n = 30), metoprolol (n = 30), or placebo (n = 30) with a solid-state digital Holter monitor. Normal subjects (n = 30) were used as controls. Quinapril increased parasympathetic and decreased sympathetic modulation, and improved sympathovagal interactions manifested by an increase in normalized high-frequency power (HFP), and a decrease in normalized low-frequency power (LFP), and their ratio (LFP/HFP) during the entire 24-hour period (p<0.001), with maximal effect on the ratio (p<0.0001) between 02.00 to 04.00 A.M., 08.00 to 11.00 A.M., and 19.00 to 22.00 P.M. (delta% ratio -30%, -32%, and -26%, respectively). Metoprolol increased HFP and decreased LFP and the LFP/HFP ratio mainly between 08.00 A.M. to 12.00 noon, and 19.00 to 22.00 P.M. (delta% ratio -21%, and -12% respectively, p<0.001). Heart rate variability indexes in the placebo group and controls remained unchanged 30 days after the baseline study. In conclusion, quinapril increased parasympathetic, and decreased sympathetic and partially restored sympathovagal interaction in patients with uncomplicated AMI during the entire 24-hour period, with peak effect in the early and late morning and evening hours. Metoprolol had a similar effect during the late morning and evening hours, but at a lower level. These effects may prove beneficial in reducing cardiac arrhythmias and acute ischemic syndromes in past-AMI patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10577448
This study was designed to investigate the tolerability, safety, and effect on left ventricular function of a new long-acting preparation of metoprolol, metoprolol succinate (CR/XL).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10577635
The efficacy of new antihypertensive drugs has been questioned. We compared the effects of conventional and newer antihypertensive drugs on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in elderly patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10580184
Increased inflammatory activity and platelet activation have been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular (CV) events in epidemiological studies, but their prognostic importance in patients with stable angina pectoris is less well established. The Angina Prognosis Study in Stockholm (APSIS), comprised 809 patients (2766 patient years) with stable angina pectoris on double-blind treatment with verapamil or metoprolol. Plasma levels of fibrinogen and orosomucoid (an acute phase reactant), white blood cell counts (WBC), platelet counts and the urinary excretion of beta-thromboglobulin (reflecting platelet secretion), were related to the risk of CV death (n=36), non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) (n=30) or revascularization (n=99) in a subgroup of 782 patients. Verapamil and metoprolol had only minor effects on the inflammatory variables. In multivariate Cox regression analyses (adjusted for previous MI, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and smoking), fibrinogen and WBC were independent predictors of CV death or non-fatal MI, as well as the risk of revascularization. Orosomucoid did not carry any independent information. Platelet counts and urinary beta-thromboglobulin were not significantly related to CV prognosis. The treatment given did not significantly influence the prognostic impact of either fibrinogen or WBC. Fibrinogen and WBC were independent predictors of CV death or non-fatal MI as well as disease progression leading to revascularization in patients with stable angina pectoris. As fibrinogen is also an acute-phase reactant, the present findings indicate that inflammatory activity is involved in disease progression in stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10588963
Cardiovascular complications are the most important causes of perioperative morbidity and mortality among patients undergoing major vascular surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10589613
The use of angiotensin II receptor subtype-1 antagonists (ARA), recently introduced as antihypertensive drugs, is becoming more prevalent. We studied the prevalence and severity of hypotension after the induction of general anesthesia in 12 patients treated with ARA until the morning of surgery. The hemodynamic response to induction was compared with that of patients treated with beta-adrenergic blockers (BB) and/or calcium channel blockers (CB) (BB/CB group, n = 45) and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) (ACEI group, n = 27). A standardized anesthesia induction protocol was followed for all patients. Hypotension occurred significantly (p < or = 0.05) more often in ARA-treated patients (12 of 12) compared with BB/CB-treated patients (27 of 45) or with ACEI-treated patients (18 of 27). There was a significantly (P < or = 0.001) increased ephedrine requirement in the ARA group (21+/-3 mg) compared with the BB/CB group (10+/-6 mg) or the ACEI group (7+/-4 mg). Hypotension refractory to repeated ephedrine or phenylephrine administration occurred significantly (P < or = 0.05) more in the ARA group (4 of 12) compared with the BB/CB group (0 of 45) or the ACEI group (1 of 27), but it was treated successfully by using a vasopressin system agonist. Treatment with angiotensin II antagonism until the day of surgery is associated with severe hypotension after the induction of anesthesia, which, in some cases, can only be treated with an agonist of the vasopressin system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10590490
Arrhythmic death can be reduced by antiarrhythmic drugs to a range of 24%. Electrophysiologic study by testing noninducibility of ventricular arrhythmia represents the classic method for evaluating the effectiveness of drug therapy. Several clinical studies have shown thaat sotalol suppresses VT induction and prevents arrhythmias recurrences at long term follow-up in 23% to 67% of patients. The efficacy of sotalol EP guided therapy in preventing VT/VF is not necessarily related to prevention of sudden death. In the ESVEM study the superiority of d,l-sotalol to other antiarrhythmic drugs was confirmed. The response to programmed ventricular stimulation was found to be strongly predictive for arrhythmia free state while the failure of sotalol therapy to suppress VT at the EP study was associated with an high recurrence rate (40%). However, EP study failes to predict freedom from sudden death. The beta-blocking activity of racemic sotalol may account for some of the observed survival benefit.Beta-blockers therapy reduces mortality in patients after myocardial infarction primarily by a reduction of sudden death. A reduction of death, worsening heart failure and life threatening ventricular arrhythmias was shown in a recent study on carvedilol. In the prospective study of Steinbeck the EP guided-therapy did not improve the overall outcome when compared to metoprolol. Suppression of inducible arrhythmias by antiarrhythmic drugs was associated with a better outcome. The effectiveness of defibrillator therapy in reducing overall mortality, has been uncertain since great clinical trials have been concluded. MADIT, AVID and CASH trials confirmed the superiority of ICD therapy over antiarrhythmic drugs therapy: ICD should be considered the first choice therapy in post-cardiac arrest patients. The ongoing BEST Trial will give us further responses about the interaction between EP study and metoprolol effect compared to ICD in patients post myocardial infarction also focusing on tolerability and compliance of the beta-blocking therapy in patients with low ejection fraction. In this study will be useful to optimize therapy in patients at high risk of sudden death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10590497
There are a number of important primary prevention implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) trials underway which will help define the role of the ICD in high risk patients. High risk is defined by low ejection fraction, although a number of electrical markers (e.g., the signal averaged ECG and invasive electrophysiologic test) are also under evaluation. The trials currently underway (including SCD-HEFT, MADIT II, and the CABG-PATCH substudy) are analyzing patients with either coronary or idiopathic cardiomyopathy who have an EF of 35% or under. Patients are randomized to either ICD therapy or no antiarrhythmic drug therapy. Maximal congestive heart failure therapy with ACE inhibitors and beta blockers is used in both arms of each trial. At the conclusion of these trials we should have a better understanding of which group of presumably high risk patients, if any, will benefit from the ICD. Another group of high risk patients that is being encountered more frequently: those who have a high risk diagnosis. These patients are present in such small numbers that a large randomized trial is impossible. As many of these patients are receiving ICDs, a national registry of firing rates will be helpful.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10592890
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10593636
Numerous research findings support the proposed connection between such psychological characteristics as stress and hostility and the manifestation of disease. However, less evidence is available concerning the role(s) psychological factors might play in the process of disease recovery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10595953
An abnormally low chronotropic response and an abnormally high ventilatory response (V(E)/V(CO2)) to exercise are common in patients with severe heart failure, but their relative prognostic impacts have not been well explored.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10603666
To analyze the characteristics and control of hypertensive patients visited in a hospital hypertension clinic, dependent of the internal medicine department.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10614147
Arterial hypertension is a cardinal precursor of congestive heart failure, and diastolic dysfunction is the most frequent mechanism for it. Systolic left ventricular dysfunction, although less frequent, has a worse prognosis. Most cases of systolic dysfunction in patients with hypertension is due to acute myocardial infarction, although other mechanisms can be involved. In some studies, non-ischemic hypertensive systolic dysfunction is the etiology of chronic heart failure in up to 10% of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Diastolic dysfunction and left ventricular hypertrophy are also associated with a higher risk of heart failure and systolic dysfunction. Given the poor prognosis of patients with congestive heart failure and dilated cardiomyopathy, it is fundamental to try to prevent the development of left ventricular dysfunction by means of a correct control of blood pressure, regression of left ventricular hypertrophy and prevention of coronary artery disease. When systolic dysfunction is established, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are the treatment of choice; diuretics and digoxin can be added in patients with overt congestive heart failure. Recent studies suggest that other drugs, such as carvedilol and losartan, can be beneficial, but current evidence is still scarce.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10618300
Ventricular septal defect (VSD) complicating acute myocardial infarction has been studied primarily in small, prethrombolytic-era trials. Our goal was to determine clinical predictors and angiographic and clinical outcomes of this complication in the thrombolytic era.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10619579
Obesity is a significant risk factor for hypertension and the cardiovascular sequelae of hypertension. Weight loss has been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure in overweight individuals. The purpose of this study was to show the impact of a weight loss intervention on overall medication requirements for obese, hypertensive patients. This was a substudy of the Hypertension Optimal Treatment (HOT) study. HOT study patients who had a body mass index > or =27 kg/m2 were randomized to receive either the weight loss intervention, which included dietary counseling and group support, or to serve as the control group. Patients' weights and number of medication steps (per HOT protocol) required to achieve target diastolic blood pressure were measured at 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, and 30 months. Patients in the weight loss group lost significantly more weight than the control group only at 6 months (-3.2+/-4.3 v. -1.8+/-2.7 kg [mean +/- SD] for weight loss group versus control, respectively, P = .05). The weight loss group tended to regain weight after the first 6 months of the study. However, patients in the weight loss group used a significantly fewer number of medication steps than the control group at all time intervals except 3 months. Weight loss appears to be a useful tool in blood pressure management in patients who require medication to control their blood pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10624069
Hypertension following coronary artery bypass grafting is not uncommon, especially in patients having good left ventricular function. It is often accompanied by tachycardia. The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of esmolol in the treatment of tachycardia and hypertension immediately following cardiopulmonary bypass and to study other haemodynamic effects of esmolol. Thirty patients undergoing elective [corrected] coronary artery bypass grafting were included in this prospective study. Morphine-based anaesthetic technique along-with standard bypass techniques were used in all the patients. The study was performed in the operating room about 30-45 minutes after the termination of cardiopulmonary bypass. Patients having a heart rate of more than 90 bpm and systolic blood pressure of more than 130 mm Hg without any inotropic support were included and randomly assigned to esmolol or control group. Esmolol was administered in a bolus dose of 500 micrograms/kg followed by infusion of upto 100 micrograms/kg/min. The patients in the control group were administered comparable volumes of normal saline. Baseline haemodynamic measurements were obtained just before the administration of esmolol or normal saline and were repeated after 5, 10, 15, 30 and 45 min. The baseline measurement in both the groups showed that patients were maintaining a state of hyperdynamic circulation with high systolic blood pressure (esmolol group 148 +/- 15 mm Hg, control group 140 +/- 8 mm Hg; p = NS), heart rate (esmolol group 128 +/- 17 bpm, control group 127 +/- 17 bpm; p = NS) and cardiac index (esmolol group 3.1 +/- 1 L/min/m2, control group 3.3 +/- 0.5 L/min/m2; p = NS). Esmolol decreased systolic blood pressure (p < 0.001), heart rate (p < 0.01) and cardiac index (p < 0.05) at five minutes. These changes persisted throughout the study period. The left ventricular stroke work index decreased at five minutes (p < 0.05) and remained so till 30 minutes. The maximum fall in heart rate (15%) and systolic blood pressure (16%) was observed at 45 minutes. There were no haemodynamic changes in the control group except that cardiac index, stroke volume and left ventricular stroke work index increased at five minutes. We conclude that esmolol lowers the indices of cardiovascular work in patients who demonstrated hyperdynamic circulation. This was achieved by decreasing the heart rate and systolic blood pressure which was accompanied by decrease in cardiac index and left ventricular stroke work index.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10630736
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term effects of administering bisoprolol compared with nitrendipine on the duration of the exercise tolerated by male and female patients, aged 18-65 years, having mild to moderate hypertension and taking regular exercise. In this double-blind, randomized prospective study, 96 patients (85 men and 11 women, 48+/-10 years) formed two groups: 49 in the bisoprolol group, and 47 in the nitrendipine group. After a washout period of 14 days, either 10 mg of bisoprolol or 20 mg of nitrendipine was given daily over a treatment period of 12 weeks. During the treatment period, the stability of the physical training was monitored weekly by using a questionnaire. The results of two maximal triangular exercise tolerance tests (ETTs) on an ergometric bicycle performed at D0 under placebo and at D84 under active treatment were compared. No statistical difference was observed between both groups, concerning age, gender, morphologic characteristics, resting cardiovascular parameters, or physical training. Both groups maintained the same training level throughout the study. No significant differences between the groups were noted for duration of ETT [D0 892+/-284 s, D84, 919+/-267 s (NS) vs. D0 929+/-290 s, D84 904+/-324 s (NS)], or maximal work load [D0 190+/-49 W, D84 197+/-48 W (NS) vs. D0 198+/-49 W, D84 196+/-55 W (NS)]. On the other hand, both groups differed in maximal systolic blood pressure [D0 239+/-24 mm Hg, D84 215+/-22 mm Hg (p<0.001) vs. D0 237+/-24 mm Hg, D84 222+/-27 mm Hg (p<0.05)] (p = 0.05), and maximal pulse rate during exercise [141+/-18 vs. 163+/-17] (p<0.001), albeit not in maximal diastolic blood pressure [D0 113+/-13 mm Hg, D84 106+/-17 mm Hg (p<0.05) vs. D0 112+/-13 mm Hg, D84 104+/-15 mm Hg (p<0.05)]. The patient's own perception of the maximal effort (Borg scale) was not significantly different in either of the groups (placebo vs. treatment). Overall, in a population of hypertensive patients taking regular exercise, long-term treatment with bisoprolol produced no significant changes in the duration of peak effort, maximal workload, or the effort perceived by the patients themselves. The effects of regular exercise were comparable in both groups (bisoprolol or nitrendipine). Because previous studies have shown that dihydropyridines do not modify exercise performance in hypertensive patients, it may be concluded that the antihypertensive therapy with bisoprolol is well tolerated in a population of active hypertensive patients during dynamic exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10631628
Sumatriptan is a 5HT1D agonist used in the treatment of migraine. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, beta-blockers, and calcium channel-blocking antagonists are used in the prophylaxis of migraine. Hence, there is a need to investigate the interaction of these prophylactic drugs with sumatriptan. The interaction of sumatriptan with propranolol, flunarizine, pizotifen, and butorphanol were reported earlier. Naproxen is shown to be effective in prophylactic treatment of migraine. In this study, the authors have investigated the circadian rhythm effect of naproxen on the pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan at 1000 and 2200 hours. Twelve healthy volunteers were treated with 100 mg sumatriptan succinate either alone or along with 500 mg naproxen orally at either 1000 or 2200 hours in a randomized Latin square design with a washout period of 10 days. Serum samples were collected at predetermined time intervals and analyzed for unchanged sumatriptan by high-performance liquid chromatography. The pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated by using model-independent methods. Naproxen had no statistically significant (p > 0.05) effect on any pharmacokinetic parameters of sumatriptan both at 1000 and 2200 hours treatment. The results of this study suggest that no alteration in the sumatriptan dosage will be necessary for migraine patients taking naproxen prophylactic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10631632
This study sought to establish quantitative criteria for dysautonomia in artificially ventilated patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). Such criteria would help to identify patients at risk for cardiovascular complications. This retrospective controlled clinical study compared hourly cardiovascular monitoring data from 36 successive, artificially ventilated GBS patients with that from 11 artificially ventilated control patients with myasthenia. Tolerance limits for daily means, extremes, and variations in heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) were estimated from the most abnormal subgroups of the treatment days of our control patients. These exceeded previously suggested arbitrary cutoff values for dysautonomia. The range in systolic BP was increased in 27 GBS patients, despite an upper limit of normal (85 mmHg) that was double the value suggested in previous work. All 16 patients with mean systolic BP above 165 mmHg also had persistent tachycardia (mean HR > 125 bpm), or were treated with beta-blockers. This pattern of sympathetic hyperactivity was combined with probable vagal hyperactivity (bradycardia < 48 bpm) in 6 patients. Hypotension (minimal systolic BP < 85 mmHg) and unprovoked bradycardia indicated sympathetic hypoactivity in 3 patients. Except in one patient who suffered from asystole on his first day on the ICU, all episodes of bradycardia were preceded by increased daily systolic BP variation (> 85 mmHg), which thus proved to be a sensitive and prognostically valuable indicator of dysautonomia in GBS.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10634677
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10636257
To compare the hemodynamic effects of twice daily metoprolol tartrate (MT) and once daily metoprolol succinate (MS) in congestive heart failure patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10642347
The objective of the present study was to analyze the influence of the I/D polymorphism of the ACE gene on the outcome of microalbuminuria in essential hypertensive patients who were receiving antihypertensive treatment. One hundred thirty-six essential hypertensive patients who were <50 years old and had never previously received treatment with antihypertensive drugs were included in the study. During a 3-year period, patients received nonpharmacological treatment consisting of moderate salt restriction and a low-calorie diet they were obese, with or without a regimen of antihypertensive drugs based on beta-blockers or ACE inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide was added when necessary to maintain the blood pressure goal of <135/85 mm Hg. At the beginning of the study and at yearly intervals, systolic and diastolic blood pressures (SBP and DBP, respectively), 24-hour urinary albumin excretion (UAE), renal function, and biochemical profile measurements were made. The insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism of the ACE gene was determined through the use of polymerase chain reaction. The variables used in the statistical analysis were the measurements at the start of the study and the increase or decrease detected during the follow-up, estimated as individual specific regression line slope values. At baseline, no differences in blood pressure or UAE values were observed among genotypes. Likewise, the genotype or allele frequency was not significantly different between normoalbuminurics and microalbuminurics. After the 3 treatment years, significant reductions in SBP, DBP, and UAE were found (SBP 151.6+/-17.3 reduced to 137.2+/-14.3 mm Hg, P<0.001; DBP 96.6+/-8.9 reduced to 84.5+/-9.8 mm Hg, P<0.001; UAE 36.7+/-71.5 reduced to 28.3+/-78.6 mg/24 h, P<0. 05). The slopes of these parameters over time did not differ significantly among genotypes. The slope of SBP was the main factor related to the slope of logUAE (P<0.003). A significant positive correlation coefficient between the SBP and logUAE slopes was observed for the DD patients (r=0.57, P<0.0001) but was absent in patients carrying the I allele (II r=-0.03, P=NS; I/D r=0.01, P=NS). Follow-up studies should be used to achieve a better understanding of the impact of candidate gene polymorphisms on the development of hypertension-induced organ damage. Assessment of the I/D polymorphism of the ACE gene may identify subjects who require a greatly lowered blood pressure to prevent organ damage and to reduce hypertension-associated complications and death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10650299
The risk of occurrence of medical events in a clinical trial is competitive in nature; that is, in a given patient the risk of having a critical event depends on the amount of time elapsed since random assignment and on the previous events that may have occurred in the patient. The purpose of this study was to examine the relations between baseline variables, the interactions between treatment, bisoprolol, or placebo, and the occurrence of critical events during the CIBIS trial, a mortality and morbidity trial of beta-blockade in patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10650302
The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) has designated high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) > or =60 mg/dL a "negative" coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factor, but a substantial proportion of coronary events occur among women despite high HDL-C levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10652967
Patients with hypertension are at increased risk of developing heart failure (HF), but the mechanisms by which hypertension leads to HF have not been clarified [although left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is clearly a predictor of an increased risk of HF]. Similarly, although antihypertensive therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of HF in hypertensive patients, it is not known how this benefit is produced and, currently, there is no clear evidence that any class of antihypertensive agent is more effective than any other in this respect. On theoretical grounds, beta-blockers would be expected to be ideal agents for the prevention of HF in hypertensive patients. In addition to control of blood pressure and regression of LVH, they have clear benefits on morbidity and mortality after myocardial infarction (MI), which probably plays a major role in the development of HF in hypertensive patients, and on the prognosis of HF itself. A reduction in long-term mortality after MI has been demonstrated only for non-selective beta-blockers. Carvedilol, a non-selective beta-blocker which also has other ancillary properties including alpha-1-receptor blockade and antioxidant effects and a favourable metabolic profile, may be an appropriate choice for the prevention of HF in hypertensive patients. This is reinforced by the salutary benefits of carvedilol for the reduction in the morbidity and mortality of HF itself.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10653828
Metoprolol provides clinical benefits in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). In this study, we investigated the effects of controlled-release metoprolol (metoprolol CR) on clinical status, on left ventricular (LV) volumes and function, and on neurohumoral activation in a large number of patients with CHF of mixed causes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10654500
Atrial fibrillation is a common complication of cardiovascular surgery. Beta-blockers have been shown to decrease the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation. However, the use of magnesium is more controversial. It was our hypothesis that adjunctive magnesium sulfate would improve the efficacy of beta-blockers alone in the prevention of postoperative atrial fibrillation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10654875
The efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of bisoprolol were investigated following oral administration once daily for 12 weeks in hyperreninemic patients with dialysis-refractory hypertension. Mean blood pressure rapidly fell from 132 to 112 mmHg in the 5.0-mg/day (n = 6) and from 142 to 128 mmHg in the 2.5-mg/day patients (n = 5), which were accompanied by a fall in plasma renin activity. On nondialysis days, Cmax and T1/2 were significantly higher in patients than in healthy control subjects. However, Cmax in the 2.5-mg/day patients was almost equal to that in healthy control subjects receiving 5.0 mg/day of bisoprolol. Plasma bisoprolol was dialyzable. During the course of the study, dialysis hypotension and bradycardia occurred in two patients receiving 5.0 mg/day of bisoprolol. In conclusion, a daily dose of 2.5 mg bisoprolol seems to be an adequate and relatively effective dose in our patients with dialysis-refractory hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10655195
To compare the effect on intraocular pressure (IOP) of latanoprost monotherapy and timolol-pilocarpine in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension with inadequately controlled IOP on topical beta adrenergic antagonists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10655253
It is clearly established that beta-blockers decrease the risk of a first variceal bleeding in cirrhosis. We have recently shown that the addition of isosorbide mononitrate to nadolol decreases the rate of variceal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis and varices, compared with nadolol alone, after a median follow-up of 30 months. It is not established if the long-term treatment with the combination continues to be beneficial. Therefore, we assessed the long-term effect of this combination on first variceal bleeding, complications, and death. One hundred forty-six cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices included in a previously published multicenter, randomized study comparing nadolol (40-160 mg/d) with the combination nadolol plus isosorbide mononitrate (10-20 mg 3 times per day) were followed up for up to 7 years (median follow-up, 55 months). The primary end-point was variceal bleeding of any severity. Twenty-four patients (16 in the nadolol group, and 8 in the combination group) experienced variceal bleeding (log rank test, P =.02). Cumulative risk of bleeding was 29% and 12%, respectively (95% CI for the difference, 1%-23%). Two and 4 patients, respectively, had bleeding from portal hypertensive gastropathy (log rank test, P =.20). Thirty and 25 patients, respectively, died during follow-up (log rank test, P =.13). Twelve and 10 patients, respectively, had de novo occurrence of ascites during follow-up (log rank test, P =.29). In conclusion, nadolol plus isosorbide mononitrate is significantly more effective than nadolol alone in the long-term use. Side effects are few, and no deleterious effects on ascites occurrence or on survival occur after long-term use of this combination.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10666349
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10672977
Adrenergic receptors mediate some of the physiological and possibly behavioral effects of cocaine. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of treatment with a peripherally acting adrenergic blocking drug labetalol on the cardiovascular and subjective response to repeated deliveries of smoked cocaine. In this double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, 12 cocaine users were treated with a single 100 or 200 mg dose of labetalol, or placebo in each of three experimental sessions. Starting 2 h after the medication treatment, subjects received three doses of 0.4 mg/kg smoked cocaine, 30 min apart. Labetalol treatment significantly attenuated the cocaine-induced increases in heart rate and systolic blood pressure. This effect of labetalol on the cardiovascular response did not decrease with repeated cocaine deliveries. The subjective response to smoked cocaine deliveries was not affected by labetalol treatment. These results suggest that labetalol effectively attenuates the systolic blood pressure and heart rate increases induced by repeated doses of smoked cocaine, but does not alter subjective effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10673253
beta-blockers are routinely prescribed in congenital long-QT syndrome (LQTS), but the effectiveness and limitations of beta-blockers in this disorder have not been evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10673735
Treated hypertensive subjects may remain five times more likely to die of cardiac and cerebrovascular diseases than normotensive subjects with equivalent resting blood pressure (BP) levels. Research evidence suggests that exercise BP is a better predictor of end-organ damage and mortality than resting BP, and data from our centre show that a significant proportion of treated hypertensives have uncontrolled BP during a 5-min Dundee Step Test. The prognostic usefulness of exercise BP has yet to be translated into clinical practice because of the lack of a suitable technique. The Dundee Step Test is being evaluated in the ASCOT (Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcome Trial) study, a 5-year follow-up multicentre, multinational trial comparing the effect of newer (amlodipine and perindopril) and older (bendroflumethiazide and atenolol) antihypertensive agents stratified according to cholesterol levels on cardiac outcome. If the value of the Dundee Step Test is proven, then it may be adopted into routine clinical practice for the assessment of exercise BP. This may result in the improved management of hypertension with a subsequent reduction in morbidity and mortality. The publication of this study protocol is meant to be a statement of on-going research which may stimulate interest among those with an interest in this area of research. Journal of Human Hypertension (2000) 14, 75-78.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10676671
The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of different antihypertensive agents, calcium antagonists, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers and diuretic agents on endothelial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10678340
Our goal was to determine what drugs are most efficacious for controlling the ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10680303
This prospective study was done to compare the control of heart rate and haemodynamics during coronary artery revascularisation without cardiopulmonary bypass using either esmolol or diltiazem. Sixty adult patients with one or two vessel coronary artery disease, were randomly divided into 2 equal groups. Group A received a 500 micrograms/kg loading dose of esmolol followed by a 100 micrograms/kg/h infusion, for control of heart rate during surgical anastomosis of the coronary vessel. While Group B received 0.15 mg/kg diltiazem as a loading dose followed by a 5 mg/h infusion for heart rate control, during the anastomosis. It was seen that heart rate control was better in Group A, 51.4 (+/- 1.3) beats/min, than in Group B, 69.6 (+/- 3.9) beats/min but the decrease in heart rate was significant in both the groups at peak effect compared to respective predrug values. Group A patients had unchanged systemic resistance and pulmonary artery wedge pressure but mean pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance were significantly raised. Group B patients had decreased systemic resistance, mean pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary artery wedge pressure, and reduced right ventricular stroke work index. We concluded that although esmolol provided dramatically slower heart rates, during surgery, the resulting elevations in mean pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance would require caution if used in patients with underlying right ventricular dysfunction from ischaemia or infarction. Diltiazem by virtue of its effects on systemic vascular resistance, cardiac output, and lowering of mean arterial pressure may be a better choice in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10682563
To investigate the alterations of plasma endothelin-1(ET-1) in patients with congestive heart failure(CHF) and the effects of metoprolol on it, plasma ET-1 and norepinephrine(NE) were measured in 43 patients using radioimmunoassay and high-performance liquid chromatography methods. Twenty-four patients were treated with metoprolol plus the routine therapy while the others were received the routine therapy only. The findings were that levels of plasma ET-1 and NE increased before the treatment, and decreased after the treatment with metoprolol for 1 month. There was no alteration of plasma ET-1 or NE in the control group.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10682964
Oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors used to treat glaucoma have significant systemic side effects. Brinzolamide 1.0%, a new topical ocular carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, is effective apparently without significant systemic side effects. This study was performed to establish the long-term safety and efficacy of brinzolamide 1.0% two and three times daily for primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10686705
The aim of the study was to evaluate the current antihyperglycaemic and antihypertensive treatment schemes as well as the quality of metabolic control and blood pressure in a population with type 2 diabetes, in view of the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) data. 318 patients were included. 44% were treated with metformin and/or sulfonylurea. 44% received insulin in monotherapy or combined with oral drugs. HbA1c was 8.0 (7.9-9.4)% (median; percentiles 25-75). Chronic neurological and vascular (micro- and macroangiopathy) complications were present in 21-43% of patients and were related to glycaemic control. (Un)treated hypertension was found in 59% of patients. Main treatments were ACE-inhibitors (40%), calcium channel antagonists and diuretics (20%) and/or beta-blockers (18%). Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were 147 +/- 22 and 86 +/- 12 mm/Hg (mean +/- 1 SD). In conclusion, overall glycaemic control of a type 2 diabetic population remains slightly unsatisfactory in view of the UKPDS recommendations. In contrast, blood pressure control was adequate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10687257
Trimetazidine has been shown to improve anginal symptoms without altering hemodynamic variables in patients with coronary artery disease. The aim of this study was to compare the effect of trimetazidine and atenolol upon symptoms, resting left ventricular filling dynamics and exercise tolerance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10692737
Patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension (n = 1570) were enrolled in a large, multicentre, randomised, open-label study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of different regimens of carvedilol. Reported here are the effects of carvedilol on microalbuminuria (MAU) in a subset of 876 patients who underwent MAU assessment (i.e. the Micral-Test) at baseline and at week 12. MAU was present at baseline in 245 (28%) of these patients. Despite different magnitudes of blood pressure reduction, improvements in MAU were similar in all groups (range 54-60%), with complete disappearance occurring in 48-55% of patients. The decrease in MAU did not correlate with the magnitude of blood pressure reduction, suggesting a possible renal protective effect exerted by carvedilol independent of blood pressure reduction mediated by beta-blockade and vasodilatation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10694188
The European Lacidipine Study of Atherosclerosis (ELSA) is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, multi-national interventional trial to determine the effect of four-year treatment using the calcium antagonist lacidipine versus the beta-blocker atenolol on the progression of carotid atherosclerosis in 2259 asymptomatic hypertensive patients. B-mode ultrasound is used to measure the primary and secondary endpoints including the mean maximum intima-media thickness (IMT) of the carotid bifurcations and the common carotid arteries (CBM(max)), the mean maximum IMT of 12 standard carotid sites (M(max)) and the overall maximum IMT (T(max)). This paper reports the cross-sectional reproducibility of ultrasound measurements at baseline.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10694831
The effects on glucose metabolism by the beta-blocker atenolol and the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitor trandolapril were investigated in a randomised double-blind parallel group study of patients with primary hypertension. Twenty-six patients were treated with 50-100 mg atenolol and 27 patients with 2-4 mg trandolapril o.d. Intravenous glucose tolerance tests, euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamps and serum lipid measurements were performed after 8 and 48 weeks of active treatment. After 48 weeks insulin sensitivity was reduced by 23% by atenolol while it remained unchanged during trandolapril treatment (+0.5%, P = 0.0010 for difference between treatments, ANCOVA). The effect on triglycerides (+22% vs -8.5%) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-13% vs +0.7%) also differed significantly between atenolol and trandolapril. Results after 8 weeks were similar. Glucose tolerance was not affected by either drug. Atenolol reduced diastolic blood pressure (DBP) better than trandolapril (-15.3 mm Hg vs -6.6 mm Hg for supine DBP after 48 weeks, P = 0.012). The difference in effect on insulin sensitivity between the drugs corresponded to 25% of the baseline values of insulin sensitivity, and persisted over 48 weeks of treatment. The choice of antihypertensive treatment could influence the risk of diabetes associated with treated hypertension. Journal of Human Hypertension (2000) 14, 175-180.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10694836
Subjects over the age 60 with sustained sitting diastolic pressures of 95-115 mm Hg were randomised to a regime based on bisoprolol (n = 368) or nifedipine retard (n = 379) for 24 weeks. The goal diastolic pressure was < or =90 mm Hg and to achieve this, double-blind medication could be doubled (5/10 mg bisoprolol, 40/80 mg nifedipine retard) or hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg (unblinded) could be added to the higher dose. In an intention-to-treat analysis, 309 subjects in both the bisoprolol and nifedipine retard treated group provided at least a baseline and a second quality of life assessment (82%). An excess of symptoms was observed in the nifedipine group for oedema of the legs, nocturia, constipation, racing heart and heart thumping. Fewer patients reported wheeze in the nifedipine group. For quality of life, there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups after 8 weeks. However, when analysing the results of the last available assessment (usually at 24 weeks) there were significant (P < 0.05) improvements in tension/anxiety, anger/ hostility, vigour/activity, and confusion/bewilderment, assessed by the Profile of Mood States (POMS) in patients receiving bisoprolol in comparison to those receiving nifedipine retard. The Sickness Impact Profile and objective tests of cognitive function did not differ statistically between the two groups. Quality of life was maintained at a good level on both treatments with advantages for bisoprolol in certain areas. Journal of Human Hypertension (2000) 14, 205-212.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10695358
The aim of the study was to analyse the clinical course of pts with end stage disease (ESD) in the period of four years. The study population consisted of 152 pts (132 males, 20 females) at the age of 17-66 years (mean = 48.8 year SD = 9.1) primarily qualified to the heart transplantation (HTX). We analysed the ethiology of cardiac failure, the NYHA class of circulation insufficiency, frequency of occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and conduction system disturbances in 24-hour ecg monitoring, and the pharmacotherapy efficacy. An ischemic ethiology of cardiac failure we found in 102 pts, cardiomyopathy (idiopathic, hypertrophic or postinfectious) in 46 and unoperable valvular disease--in 4. Ten pts were in II NYHA class, 112 in III, and 30 in IV. Left ventricular ejection fraction (echo assessed) ranged from 11% to 40%(mean = 24.9%), LVEDd = 46-111 mm (mean = 80.9 mm), LVESd = 34-83.5 mm(mean = 63 mm). We found IVa class by Lown ventricular arrhythmias (in Holter monitoring) in 38 pts and IVb in 78. Fifty six pts were treated with amiodarone, 10--with beta-blockers and 11 with sotalol. 19 pts were treated by permanent cardiac pacing during the waiting period, 2 ones--by PTCA, 2--by CABG, three ones--by dynamic cardiomyoplasty, and one--by partial aneurysmectomy. One pt was treated by CABG and automatic cardioverter-defibrilator implantation. In 5 cases HTX was delayed because of the positive effect of pharmacotherapy. In assessed period HTX were performed in 64 cases, 31 pts died and 43 are still waiting for the procedure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10695689
There are scant data on the effect of body mass index (BMI) (calculated as weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters) on cardiovascular events and death in older patients with hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10698228
Beta-blocker therapy has been reported to improve survival and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in the setting of congestive heart failure (CHF). The magnitude and predictors of improved LVEF are unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10702651
beta-Blockers are well documented to prolong life in patients after myocardial infarction (MI), yet patients who also have asthma are frequently and understandably denied this therapy. We reviewed the literature (via MEDLINE) for the past 35 years for beta-blocker-induced asthma, and reexamined potential beta-blocker use in the context of NIH guidelines for asthma classification and management. Because beta-blockers can cause fatal or life-threatening asthma, their use should be avoided in moderate to severe persistent asthmatics. Benefits of low-dose beta(1)-blockers (e.g. atenolol 50 mg daily) may outweigh risks in some patients with mild intermittent or well-controlled mild persistent asthma. Further study is needed to verify that low doses of beta(1)-blockers are effective in prolonging life after MI, and that use specifically in mild intermittent or mild persistent asthma per NIH classification is safe.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10709160
Due to the prevalence of both gastrointestinal and cardiovascular diseases, it is likely that patients may be coprescribed gastric parietal cell proton pump inhibitors and beta-adrenergic antagonists. Therefore, the objectives of this phase I study were to assess the potential effects of the coadministration of lansoprazole on the pharmacokinetics of propranolol and to evaluate the safety of propranolol with concomitant lansoprazole dosing. In a double-blind fashion, 18 healthy male nonsmokers were initially randomized to receive either 60 mg oral lansoprazole, each morning for 7 days, or an identical placebo (period 1). On day 7, all subjects were concomitantly administered oral propranolol, 80 mg. After a minimum of 1 week following the last dose of either lansoprazole or placebo, subjects were crossed over to the opposite treatment for another 7 days (period 2). Subjects were again administered oral propranolol on day 7. During both treatment periods, blood samples for the determination of plasma propranolol and 4-hydroxy-propranolol were obtained just before the dose and at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 12, 16, 20, and 24 hours postdose. Plasma propranolol and 4-hydroxy-propranolol concentrations were determined by using HPLC with fluorescence detection. The Cmax, tmax, AUC0-infinity, and t1/2 values for propranolol, as well as the AUC0-infinity for 4-hydroxy-propranolol, were calculated and compared between the lansoprazole and placebo regimens. The mean age of the 15 subjects who successfully completed the study was 31 years (range: 24-38 years), and their average weight was 174.8 pounds (range: 145-203 pounds). There were no statistically significant differences between the lansoprazole and placebo regimens for the propranolol Cmax, tmax, AUC0-infinity, and t1/2 values. Also, there were no statistically significant differences between regimens for the 4-OH-propranolol AUC0-infinity. Safety evaluations, which included adverse events, vital signs, clinical laboratory determinations, ECG, and physical examinations, revealed no unexpected clinically significant findings and did not suggest a drug-drug interaction. In conclusion, lansoprazole does not significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of propranolol, suggesting that it does not interact with the CYP2D6- or CYP2C19-mediated metabolism of propranolol. Modification of a propranolol dosage regimen in the presence of lansoprazole is not indicated, based on the pharmacokinetic analysis and the lack of a clinically significant alteration in the pharmacodynamic response.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10714728
Results from recent studies on the effects of beta1-blockade in patients with heart failure demonstrated a 34% reduction in total mortality. However, the effect of beta1-blockade on the frequency of hospitalizations, symptoms, and quality of life in patients with heart failure has not been fully explored.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10716137
Carvedilol reduces mortality and improves symptoms and ejection fraction in ischemic heart failure, but its mode of action is not well defined and not all patients respond to treatment. The aim of the CHRISTMAS (Carvedilol Hibernation Reversible Ischaemia Trial, Marker of Success) study is to examine whether hibernation may be a significant factor determining this response. This paper describes the methodology and the rationale for the choice of the nuclear cardiology and echocardiography imaging techniques used in the study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10718104
The main objective of fixed dose combination therapy for hypertension is to improve blood pressure (BP) control with lower, better tolerated dosages of 2 antihypertensives rather than higher dosages of a single agent. Felodipine and metoprolol lower BP via different, but complementary, mechanisms and controlled release formulations of these 2 drugs are available as a fixed dose combination, felodipine/metoprolol. In clinical trials in patients with hypertension, felodipine/metoprolol was significantly more effective than placebo and the respective monotherapies administered at the same dosages. Mean BP was reduced to < 155/90 mm Hg in patients treated with combination therapy and controlled in approximately 70% of patients. In one study that titrated dosages to effect, fewer felodipine/metoprolol than felodipine or metoprolol monotherapy recipients required dosage increases to achieve BP control (45 vs 60 and 67%, respectively). Data from double blind comparative studies show that the antihypertensive efficacy of felodipine/metoprolol 5 to 10/50 to 100 mg/day is significantly greater than that of enalapril monotherapy or captopril plus hydrochlorothiazide and equivalent to nifedipine/atenolol and amlodipine. In comparisons with enalapril, fewer felodipine/metoprolol than enalapril recipients required dosage titration to achieve BP control. Compared with amlodipine, felodipine/metoprolol significantly reduced mean 24-hour average BP (8.9/5.5 vs 14.4/9.5 mm Hg after 6 weeks; p < 0.001). Both treatments preserved diurnal rhythm. Long term follow-up studies show that the antihypertensive effect of felodipine/metoprolol occurs mostly during the first month of treatment with small additional decreases in BP being observed in the second and third months, and a relatively constant effect thereafter. According to a validated questionnaire, quality of life was relatively similar during 12 weeks treatment with felodipine/metoprolol, enalapril or placebo. In a retrospective pharmacoeconomic analysis conducted in Sweden, felodipine/metoprolol was more cost effective than enalapril as initial treatment for hypertension. Peripheral oedema, headache and flushing were the most commonly reported adverse events with felodipine/metoprolol and felodipine monotherapy, whereas dizziness, fatigue, headache and respiratory infection were more frequent with metoprolol monotherapy. Dose-dependent adverse events such as oedema may occur less often in patients taking lower dosages in combination than in those taking higher dosages of felodipine monotherapy. Thus, patients with hypertension treated with felodipine/metoprolol experience greater control of BP, with less need for dosage titration, than those treated with felodipine, metoprolol or enalapril monotherapy. Importantly this greater efficacy does not appear to be associated with a higher incidence of adverse events relative to monotherapy. Additionally, in short term studies felodipine/metoprolol had a similar (minimal) effect on QOL to enalapril monotherapy but was more cost effective.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10718384
Within the short span of half a century, the treatment of variceal bleeding has become highly differentiated, with multiple treatment options. Pharmacological therapy with beta-blockers is well established for preventing the first variceal bleeding. The utility of adding a vasodilator to beta-blockers needs to be studied further. Octreotide is widely used as an adjuvant to standard endoscopic treatment to prevent variceal rebleeding, and the utility of this approach has been validated in several randomized controlled trials. Band ligation is well established, and its popularity has increased with the introduction of multiple ligation devices. The technical simplicity and safety of band ligation has sparked interest in using this technique for primary prophylaxis of variceal bleeding. However, randomized trials have not shown any advantage for band ligation over beta-blocker therapy, and the high variceal recurrence rate after band ligation may eliminate any theoretical advantage. A synchronous combination of band ligation and sclerotherapy has not been shown to improve the results of band ligation alone, but a metachronous approach using sclerotherapy to treat recurrent varices after band ligation has shown beneficial results. Histoacryl remains the best treatment option for gastric varices, but band ligation and loop ligation have shown promising results, and should be considered when Histoacryl is not available. Balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration is a new radiological modality for gastric varices, and one that sounds promising. TIPS is well established as an alternative to elective endoscopic treatment. Compared with endoscopic treatment, TIPS has been shown to improve the survival rate in one randomized trial. However, the cost and complications of TIPS have restricted its use. The use of endoscopic ultrasound for Doppler studies of blood flow in portal hypertension is currently investigational, but it may gain a role in selecting the optimal treatment approach for the individual patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10721156
In the HOT-study 18,790 patients in 26 countries (age 50-80 years, mean age 61.5 years) with hypertension (diastolic blood pressure between 100 and 115 mm Hg--mean value 105 mm Hg) were randomised into 3 groups with different target blood pressures (90 mm Hg, 85 mm Hg, 80 mm Hg). The basic treatment was with Felodipin (5 mg q. d.): if the target pressure was not achieved, further steps were initiated: either ACE-inhibitors or -blockers were added, in a third step the Felodipindose was increased to 100 mg and in a further step the doses of ACE-inhibitors or -blockers were doubled. If target pressure was still not achieved, a diuretic was added. Furthermore half of the patients in all groups received either placebo or 75 mg acetyl-salicylic acid. To prevent cardiovascular events the best benefit was shown, when a diastolic pressure of 82.6 mm Hg was reached. Acetyl-salicylic acid showed a further benefit in preventing myocardial infarction, but not in preventing strokes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10724047
In patients with heart failure, beta-adrenergic blocking agents reduce overall and cardiovascular mortality. This meta-analysis aimed at clarifying their effect on sudden death, the magnitude of their benefit according to the cause of heart failure, and whether there is any difference between vasodilating and nonvasodilating agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10728951
The efficacy of amiodarone has been proved in long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm (SR) in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF). The present study evaluates the efficacy and safety of a single oral dose of amiodarone in patients with recent-onset AF (<48 hours). Seventy-two patients were randomized to receive 30 mg/kg of either amiodarone or placebo. Conversion to SR was verified by 24-hour Holter monitoring. Ten patients were excluded because of SR in the beginning of monitoring or technical failure during Holter monitoring. The remaining study groups were comparable (n = 31 for each), except that in the placebo group beta blockers were more common. The patients receiving amiodarone converted to SR more effectively than those receiving placebo (p<0.0001). At 8 hours, approximately 50% of patients in the amiodarone group and 20% in the placebo group (Holter successful) had converted to SR, whereas after 24 hours the corresponding figures were 87% and 35%, respectively. The median time for conversion (8.7 hours for amiodarone and 7.9 hours for placebo) did not differ in the groups. Amiodarone was hemodynamically well tolerated, and the number of adverse events in the study groups was similar. Amiodarone as a single oral dose of 30 mg/kg appears to be effective and safe in patients with recent-onset AF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10731399
To systematically review the management of atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10732887
We sought to evaluate the impact of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and medical treatment on self-perceived quality of life among patients with angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10733260
Despite the availability of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors for patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), mortality and morbidity remains unacceptably high. CHF is thought to progress as a result of activation of endogenous neurohormonal systems which are activated by the initial myocardial injury. The 2 neurohormonal systems which seem to be important in CHF are the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS). While stimulation of the SNS has important circulatory support functions in the short term, long term activation appears to have deleterious effects on cardiac function and outcomes. The purpose of this article is to review the literature on the use of beta-blockers in patients with CHF. The published randomised clinical trials of beta-blockers in patients with CHF have shown very promising effects on mortality and morbidity. Several systematic overviews of these trials also suggest beneficial effects on mortality, hospitalisation for CHFE need for transplant, and ejection fraction. The effect of beta-blockers on exercise tolerance. New York Heart Association Function Class (NYHA-FC) and quality of life remain equivocal. The recent presentation of the results from several large-scale trials which were terminated early because of significant survival benefit, has removed any concern over the robustness of the mortality data. Available evidence suggests that a wide variety of patients with CHF, including the elderly, should be considered for beta-blocker therapy. Caution is warranted in the initiation and titration of therapy, as symptoms of CHF may transiently worsen. Whether all beta-blockers are equally efficacious remains unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10734285
When comparing two treatments in a stratified trial with a binary endpoint, data are commonly analysed using a weighted averaging of the stratum-specific differences between proportions. Two popular sets of weights are the harmonic means of the stratum-specific sample sizes (SSIZE) and the reciprocals of the variances of the stratum-specific differences (INVAR). Either the SSIZE or INVAR weights are chosen and prespecified in the data analysis plan. We show that the 'wrong' choice between SSIZE and INVAR can result in a significantly inefficient analysis. To circumvent this potential problem, we propose a 'minimum risk' (MR) weighting strategy. The easy-to-compute MR weights are designed to yield more precise and less biased estimates of the overall treatment difference relative to the SSIZE and INVAR weights, respectively. We show, via a simulation study, that the proposed weights are an attractive compromise between the SSIZE and INVAR weights in terms of statistical power. Numerical examples are presented to illustrate the utility of the MR weights.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10735475
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10737282
Stroke incidence and mortality rates are higher in the southeastern region of the United States, which is called the "Stroke Belt." We compared the response to antihypertensive medication use in patients from different US regions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10737284
The blood pressure (BP) effects of changing the total fat intake and saturated-unsaturated fat ratio are still controversial, despite evidence that saturated fat-enriched diets are associated with higher BP levels. This double-blind, randomized crossover study evaluated a possible difference between antihypertensive effects of monounsaturated (MUFA) (extra-virgin olive oil) and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) (sunflower oil).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10738048
Previous research has suggested that thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers may promote the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, the results of previous studies have been inconsistent, and many studies have been limited by inadequate data on outcomes and by potential confounding.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10740140
In patients with chronic heart failure, the use of carvedilol therapy induces clinical and hemodynamic improvement. However, although the benefits of this beta-blocker have been established in patients with chronic heart failure, the mechanisms underlying them and the changes in left ventricular systolic function, diastolic function, and mitral regurgitation during long-term therapy remain unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10742707
Impaired insulin sensitivity has been linked with chronic heart failure (CHF). Exercise has a beneficial effect on insulin sensitivity in healthy subjects. It is used also as an adjunctive therapy in patients with CHF. We studied the effect of randomized treatment with celiprolol, a vasodilating beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist, 200 mg once daily (n=20) or placebo (n=11) on serum lipid levels and insulin sensitivity in patients with CHF. In addition, all subjects participated in a 6-month exercise training protocol. Thirteen subjects in the celiprolol and eight subjects in the control group were on additional beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist as part of their tailored CHF therapy. Insulin sensitivity was determined using the hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp test (diabetic subjects excluded, n=11 for the celiprolol group and n=8 for the placebo group).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10742710
The ELITE-II, BEST and CHAMP Trials were reported for the first time at the American Heart Association in November 1999. These trials provide valuable new information to guide clinical practice in the management of heart failure and of myocardial infarction, although none mandate a major change from current clinical practice. The IMPRESS trial of the vasopeptidase inhibitor, omapatrilat, indicated a promising new treatment for the management of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10746814
Beta-blocker therapy has been shown to improve left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction and reduce LV volumes in patients with heart failure caused by ischemic heart disease. However, the possible mechanisms of this improvement and the effects of such treatment on regional wall motion have not been established. In a substudy of the Australia-New Zealand trial of carvedilol in patients with heart failure caused by ischemic heart disease, the effects of treatment on LV regional wall motion were assessed using 2-dimensional echocardiography.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10747343
In addition to its known properties as a competitive, nonselective beta and alpha-1 receptor blocker, carvedilol directly inhibits vascular myocyte migration and proliferation and exerts antioxidant effects that are considerably greater than those of vitamin E or probucol. This provides the basis for an evaluation of carvedilol for the prevention of coronary restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10748304
To date, the use of beta-blockers in treating patients with chronic heart failure gains support, this since several large clinical trials reported reduced mortality after chronic beta-blockade. Part of these beneficial effects may result from inhibition of deleterious neurohormone activation that accompanies progression of chronic heart failure. The present study evaluates whether this neurohormone inhibition is preserved after chronic beta-blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10749962
Patients with hypertension and renal-artery stenosis are often treated with percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty. However, the long-term effects of this procedure on blood pressure are not well understood.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10751738
In this retrospective study, the sonographically measured endometrial thickness in asymptomatic, hypertensive postmenopausal women was compared with that in normotensive postmenopausal women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10752168
Studies have shown that therapy with beta-blockers reduces mortality in patients with heart failure. However, there are no studies describing the effects of propranolol on the QT dispersion in this population. The objective of this study was to assess the electrophysiological profile, mainly QT dispersion, of patients with heart failure regularly using propranolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10758046
Structural and functional alterations of the vasculature may contribute to complications of hypertension. Because angiotensin II may be pivotal in some of these vascular abnormalities, we tested the hypothesis that the angiotensin type 1 (AT(1)) receptor antagonist losartan, in contrast to the beta-blocker atenolol, would correct resistance artery abnormalities in patients with essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10759091
We sought to determine whether propranolol has adverse effects on cognitive function, depressive symptoms, and sexual function in patients treated for diastolic hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10759102
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10760544
The variability in the individual response to drugs may be due either to interindividual variations in the pharmacokinetics of the drugs or to the heterogeneity of the mechanism(s) underlying the diseases, or both. In both cases, genetic heterogeneity is involved in the metabolism of cardiovascular drugs and pathogenesis of inherited cardiovascular disorders. Molecular genetic technologies can now provide sensitive and efficient genetic testing, not only to identify polymorphic drug metabolism genes, but also to identify disease-associated genes for diagnosis and risk stratification of many hereditary cardiovascular diseases. In this review, we discuss the polymorphic metabolism of cardiovascular drugs and the molecular genetics of cardiovascular diseases in relation to the genes determining the responsiveness to a given drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10761206
The medical treatment of portal hypertension has experienced a marked progress in the past decade due to the introduction of effective portal hypotensive therapy. This has been possible because of the better understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to portal hypertension. A major step forward was the introduction of beta-blockers for the prevention of bleeding and rebleeding from gastroesophageal varices. Effective therapy requires the reduction of the hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) to 12 mmHg or below, or at least by 20% of baseline values. Unfortunately, this is only achieved in 1/3 to 1/2 of patients. Combination therapy, associating isosorbide-5-mononitrate and propranolol or nadolol administration enhances the reduction in portal pressure and increases the number of patients in whom HVPG decreases by more than 20% of baseline values and below 12 mmHg. Randomized clinical trials (RCT's) do support the concept that combination therapy is more effective than propranolol or nadolol alone, significantly better than sclerotherapy, and probably than endoscopic banding ligation. Therapy may be complemented by the association of spironolactone. The main inconvenience of pharmacological therapy is that there is no non-invasive method available to detect non-responders to treatment. Failures of drug therapy should be managed endoscopically. Failures of endoscopic treatment require 'rescue' by means of TIPS or shunt surgery. Patients with advanced liver failure should be considered for orthotopic liver transplantation, and put into a waiting list if eligible. In the treatment of acute variceal bleeding pharmacological therapy offer the unique advantage of allowing to provide specific therapy immediately after arrival to hospital, or even during transferral to hospital by ambulance, since it does not require sophisticated equipment and highly qualified medical staff. Vasopressin has been abandoned because of its toxicity, although this can be reduced by the combined administration of transdermal nitroglycerin. Terlipressin has longer effects and is more effective and safer than vasopressin alone or in combination with nitroglycerin. It has proved to be effective and to decrease mortality from bleeding in double-blind studies. RCT's have shown that this drug is as effective and safer than emergency sclerotherapy. Therapy should be maintained for five days to prevent early rebleeding. Somatostatin is probably as effective as terlipressin. Octreotide is probably useful after endoscopic therapy but can not be recommended as first line treatment. Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy and endoscopic banding ligation are very effective, but require well trained medical staff. There is an increasing trend for initiating therapy with a pharmacological agent, followed by semi-emergency endoscopic therapy as soon as a well trained endoscopist is available (within 12-24 hours), while maintaining drug therapy for 5 days. Failures of medical therapy may be treated by a second session of endoscopic treatment, but if this fails TIPS of emergency surgery should be done. In high-risk situations, such as bleeding from gastric varices or in patients with advanced liver failure, the decision for TIPS or surgery should be done earlier, after failure of the initial treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10776828
For some time the medical treatment of glaucoma has consisted of topical beta-blockers, adrenergic agents, miotics and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAIs). However, the therapeutic arsenal available for the medical treatment of glaucoma has recently extended with new classes of ocular hypotensive agents i.e. prostaglandins, local CAIs and alpha2-adrenergic agents. Beta-blockers are still the mainstay in glaucoma treatment and are first line drugs. However, even if they are applied once daily, as with timolol in gel forming solution and levobunolol, the possible cardiopulmonary adverse effects of beta-blockers remain a cause for concern. When monotherapy with beta-blockers is ineffective in reducing intraocular pressure (IOP) or is hampered by adverse effects, a change of monotherapy to prostaglandins, local CAIs, alpha2-adrenergic agonists (brimonidine) or to dipivalyl epinephrine is advised. Prostaglandins, local CAIs and alpha2-adrenergic agonists, such as brimonidine, may in time become first line drugs because they reduce IOP effectively and until now systemic adverse effects have rarely been reported with these agents. The development of a pro-drug of either a local CAI or an alpha2-adrenergic agonist with a sustained and continuous effect on IOP level, which could be applied once a day is suggested. Because of these new developments, miotics, i.e. pilocarpine and carbachol, are recommended as second or third line drugs. The cholinesterase inhibitors are considered third line drugs as better agents with fewer local and systemic adverse effects have become available. Oral CAIs may be used temporarily in patients with elevated IOPs e.g. postsurgery or post-laser, or continuously in patients with glaucoma resistant to other treatment. Combining ocular hypotensive drugs is indicated when the target pressure for an individual patient cannot be reached with monotherapy. Combination therapy of beta-blockers is additive with prostaglandins, topical CAIs and miotics. Prostaglandins such as latanoprost can be combined with beta-blockers, adrenergic agents, local CAIs and miotics. Combinations with brimonidine or local CAIs need further investigation. Treatment of glaucoma with the new ocular hypotensive agents, either in monotherapy or combination therapy, may provide lower IOPs and delay or postpone the need for surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10783226
Myocardial integrated backscatter (IB) imaging has been reported to be useful for ultrasonic tissue characterization and delineation of myocardial viability or fibrosis. beta-Blocker therapy has beneficial effects for patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), but there are no clear findings that indicate which patients with DCM will respond to this therapy. This study was performed to evaluate whether myocardial IB analysis can predict the response to beta-blocker therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10789664
Hypertension is associated with a significantly increased risk of morbidity and mortality. Only diuretics and beta-blockers have been shown to reduce this risk in long-term clinical trials. Whether newer antihypertensive agents reduce the incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10800794
Atrial pacing is often used empirically to suppress atrial ectopy and prevent atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10801996
The safety and efficacy of adding oral carvedilol (25 mg twice daily) to standardized treatment of unstable angina was assessed in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled trial on 116 patients with acute unstable angina. Patients were monitored in an intensive care unit and underwent 48-hour Holter monitoring to assess transient ischemia. Carvedilol as adjunctive therapy resulted in a significant reduction of median heart rate (65 vs 75 beats/min, p <0.05), mean systolic blood pressure (133 vs 130 mm Hg, p <0.05), and mean rate-pressure product (8,337 vs 10,042, p <0.05). Carvedilol reduced the ischemic burden during 48 hours of treatment by 75% (49 vs 204 minutes), including a 36% reduction of patients with ischemic episodes (p <0.05), a 66% reduction of the mean number of ischemic episodes (8 vs 24, p <0.05), and a 76% reduction in the mean duration of ischemic episodes (50 vs 205 minutes, p <0.05). Side effects occurred in 8 of 59 patients (13.6%) in the carvedilol group and in 5 of 54 patients (8.8%) given placebo. Although not significant, the early onset of maximal blood pressure reduction and the delayed effect on heart rate were closely correlated to drug-induced hypotension and bradycardia in the carvedilol group. Thus, carvedilol as an adjunctive to standardized treatment effectively reduces heart rate and blood pressure, and thus the ischemic burden in patients with unstable angina pectoris, but requires close monitoring of patients at risk for bradycardia or hypotension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10803042
After the demonstration of the efficacy of beta-blockers or diuretics versus placebo to prevent cardiovascular complications in elderly hypertensive patients in the first STOP-Hypertension study in 1991, a Swedish group published at the end of 1999 the STOP-2 Hypertension study. The latter randomised trial showed in a similar population that the cardiovascular protection of more recent antihypertensive agents such as calcium antagonists and angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors is similar to that of the conventional antihypertensive drugs used in the first study. In fact, the degree of blood pressure control appears to be more important than the type of antihypertensive drugs used, and this conclusion is reinforced by the observation that numerous patients should rapidly be treated by more than one antihypertensive agent to reach blood pressure targets.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10803490
NORDIL--the Nordic Diltiazem Study (NORDIL)--is a prospective, randomized, open blinded-endpoint (PROBE), multicenter, parallel-group morbidity/mortality outcome study in hypertensive patients designed to compare an intervention strategy based on the calcium antagonist diltiazem with a strategy based on conventional antihypertensive drug treatment (diuretics or beta-adrenergic blockers). Patient recruitment was started in Norway and Sweden in September 1992, and ended on December 15, 1996, when 10.896 male and female patients, aged 50-74 years, with essential hypertension had been randomized. In this paper we describe the baseline data of the patient cohort and blood pressures achieved in the two treatment groups during the early part of the study. The patient cohort consists of 5294 males and 5602 females with a mean age of 59.6 and 60.3 years, respectively. Concomitant disorders and risk factors in the cohort are: smoking 22%, ischemic heart disease 3.0%, previous myocardial infarction (MI) 2.0%, previous stroke 1.5%, diabetes mellitus 7.0%, and renal impairment 0.3%. There were no differences between the treatment groups in these respects. The blood pressure treatment goal is a target diastolic blood pressure of < or =90 mmHg or a 10% diastolic blood pressure reduction from the inclusion pressure. In the treatment group randomized to a diltiazem-based treatment strategy, blood pressure was 174/106 mmHg at baseline and 156/90 mmHg after 12 months of follow-up on active treatment. In the group randomized to a conventional treatment strategy, baseline blood pressure at randomization was 173/106 mmHg and 153/90 mmHg after 12 months on active therapy. The NORDIL study will terminate on October 31, 1999 and the final results should be available by mid-2000.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10806014
To evaluate the prognostic implications of results from exercise testing, and of antianginal treatment among patients with chronic stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10806607
Nine healthy males participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover study to determine the effects of verapamil and metoprolol administered alone and concurrently on blood flow through the hepatic artery and portal and hepatic veins and to detect a possible drug interaction between the two agents. Single oral doses of placebo/placebo, metoprolol (50 mg)/placebo, verapamil (80 mg)/placebo, or verapamil/metoprolol were separated by at least 14 days. Liver blood flow through individual hepatic vessels was measured up to 8 hours after dosage administration using a duplex Doppler ultrasound technique. Cardiac output, heart rate, blood pressure, stroke volume, and total peripheral resistance were measured for 3 hours after drug doses were given. In 5 subjects, pharmacokinetic parameters for total drug as well as S- and R-enantiomers were also measured. Verapamil given alone caused a rapid and intense increase in liver blood flow (hepatic artery = 50%, portal vein = 42%, hepatic vein = 55%) 0.75 to 1 hour after administration because of a decrease in total peripheral resistance and an increase in heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output. Metoprolol given alone caused a slow but prolonged decrease in liver blood flow (maximum decrease: hepatic artery = -54%, portal vein = -21%, hepatic vein = -27%) 4 hours after administration because of a decrease in heart rate and cardiac output. When the two agents were given together, a composite of the changes noted after separate administration was noted: a brief peak increase in liver blood flow at 0.33 to 1 hour followed by a slow, prolonged decrease that reached its maximum decline 4 to 5 hours postdose. During the combined phase, metoprolol and its enantiomers had an increased AUC and Cmax, while verapamil and its enantiomers had an increased AUC and t1/2. These pharmacokinetic changes were consistent with the magnitude and time course of liver blood flow changes through the hepatic artery and portal or hepatic veins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10808734
Our study aimed at evaluating an effect of the selected nitrates and beta adrenoceptor blockers on platelet aggregation in patients (pts) with coronary artery disease (CAD). The study included 168 male patients (M), aged between 33 and 72 years (mean age 51 +/- 7). 61 M given isosorbide dinitrate were divided into three groups: in the group I and II an effect of the drug on the platelet aggregation following a single 10 mg (I) and 20 mg (II) dose has been evaluated; in group III an effect of the drug after a two-week treatment has been evaluated. 14 male patients (group IV) were given 5-mononitrate 40 mg daily for two weeks. 85 male patients, treated with propranolol have also been divided into three groups. In group V and group VII an effect of propranolol on platelet aggregation following a single dose of 40 mg and 80 mg has been evaluated respectively. In the group VII an outcome of a two-week propranolol therapy has been assessed. Eleven patients (group VIII) received nadolol in a dose of 40-80 mg daily for two weeks. Platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) in concentration of 1 mM/ml and 5 mM/ml (groups I, II, III, V, VI, VII) and only of 1 microM/ml (groups IV, VIII) was evaluated with Born's method. In patients with CAD only isosorbide dinitrate inhibits platelet aggregation. This effect has been noted following a single dose as well as a two-week treatment. Other drugs (5-mononitrate, propranolol, nadolol) transiently increase platelet aggregation, but became either ineffective after two-week therapy (5-mononitrate, nadolol) or increase (propranolol) platelet aggregation. Tendency to inhibit (sorbonit) or to increase (propranolol) platelet aggregation has been more pronounced with higher concentration of aggregating factor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10808740
This study aimed at analysing an effect of the coronary risk factors and pharmacotherapy on the long-term outcome in women following the coronary artery by-pass. In 1004-1997, 253 female patients, aged between 33 and 82 years (mean [+/- SD] 57.0 +/- 8 years) were treated surgically. The follow-up period lasted for 7 to 60 months (mean 32.0 +/- 14 months). Ten patients (3.9%) died. Answers to the questionnaire and personal interviews assessed physical fitness based on CCS classification, pharmacotherapy, and presence of risk factors. According to CCS scale, significant improvement has been seen in 195 (82.6%; p < .0001) patients. Health state did not change in 34 (14.4%) patients, and deteriorated in 7 (3.0%). Analysisn coronary risk factors, hypertension proved prevailing (60.3%), followed by diabetes mellitus (25.5%) and obesity (22.9%). Eleven percent of patients returned to cigarettes smoking after surgery. Postoperatively, 74.1% of patients received nitrates as a constant, medication, 58.2%--beta-blockers, 53.4%--ACE inhibitors, and 19.8% of patients received calcium antagonists. Lipid abnormalities have been treated in 49.1% of patients whereas antiplatelet therapy has been carried out in 74.1%. Only 9.9% of patients received hormones. The lower CCS class before surgery, the more significant improvement after it. As pharmacotherapy was used according to the European guidelines, an improvement in the long-term outcome required some modifications in patients' life style.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10811588
When a patient survives thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction, little information from large studies exists from which to estimate prognosis during follow-up visits.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10818057
The treatment of hypertension with high-dose thiazide diuretics results in potassium depletion and a limited benefit for preventing coronary events. The clinical relevance of hypokalemia associated with low-dose diuretics has not been assessed. To determine whether hypokalemia that occurs with low-dose diuretics is associated with a reduced benefit on cardiovascular events, we analyzed data of 4126 participants in the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP), a 5-year randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of chlorthalidone-based treatment of isolated systolic hypertension in older persons. After 1 year of treatment, 7.2% of the participants randomized to active treatment had a serum potassium <3.5 mmol/L compared with 1% of the participants randomized to placebo (P<0.001). During the 4 years after the first annual visit, 451 participants experienced a cardiovascular event, 215 experienced a coronary event, 177 experienced stroke, and 323 died. After adjustment for known risk factors and study drug dose, the participants who received active treatment and who experienced hypokalemia had a similar risk of cardiovascular events, coronary events, and stroke as those randomized to placebo. Within the active treatment group, the risk of these events was 51%, 55%, and 72% lower, respectively, among those who had normal serum potassium levels compared with those who experienced hypokalemia (P<0.05). The participants who had hypokalemia after 1 year of treatment with a low-dose diuretic did not experience the reduction in cardiovascular events achieved among those who did not have hypokalemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10818061
The aim of our investigation was to determine whether the presence of additional risk factors or type of hypertension (diastolic or isolated systolic) influences blood pressure (BP) response to treatment. The International Nifedipine GITS Study: Intervention as a Goal in Hypertension Treatment (INSIGHT) study is a double-blinded outcome comparison of calcium channel blockade with diuretics in high-risk patients aged 55 to 80 years. Dynamic randomization between nifedipine once daily and hydrochlorothiazide/amiloride was performed to ensure that approximately equal numbers of patients in the 2 groups had each of the major cardiovascular risk factors. Patients with isolated systolic hypertension were also separately randomized. Atenolol or enalapril was the mandatory second-line drug. In 5669 patients who completed the 18-week titration, BP fell from 172+/-15/99+/-9 mm Hg (mean+/-SD) while receiving placebo to 139+/-12/82+/-7 mm Hg. Twenty-six percent of patients required 2 drugs, and 4% required 3 drugs. Patients with diabetes were the most resistant to treatment, requiring second and third drugs 40% and 100% more frequently than patients without diabetes and achieving marginally the highest final BP, for any risk group, of 141+/-13/82+/-8 mm Hg. Age, smoking, gender, hypercholesterolemia, left ventricular hypertrophy, and existing atherosclerosis had little (<1 mm Hg) or no influence on BP at the end of titration, but all except smoking slightly reduced the initial response of either systolic or diastolic BP. Patients with isolated systolic hypertension were slightly more responsive than average to treatment. Our findings suggest that in patients at high absolute risk of cardiovascular complications from hypertension, the risk factors themselves do not prevent the recommended BP targets from being achieved.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10819408
Different spectral methodologies for heart rate variability were recently shown to provide the same qualitative results in the context of passive tilt test. However, the impact of the method and the use of normalized power units in long-term ECG monitoring is still debated. Autoregressive and Fast Fourier transform (FFT) spectral approaches were applied to assess circadian modulation and the effect of beta-blocker administration in mild hypertensive patients who underwent continuous ambulatory ECG recording (n = 44, 51 +/- 12 years, 30 men). Spectral analysis was applied to 5-minute sequences and spectral parameters representative of each circadian period (24 hour, day, night) were calculated. In baseline recordings, FFT spectral method provided a smaller estimate of total and very low frequency powers. On the contrary, low- and high-frequency components were systematically larger with FFT. Circadian variations were in favor of an increased overall nocturnal variability but of a reduced low frequency normalized power with both spectral methods. Chronic oral administration of beta-blocker induced an increase of all spectral components except for an unchanged low-frequency normalized power, independently from the spectral approach. In spite of quantitative differences, the qualitative assessment of circadian patterns and beta-blockade effect by autoregressive- and FFT-based spectral analyses is equivalent. The low-frequency component of heart rate variability cannot be considered a reliable direct marker of sympathetic activity in long-term ambulatory ECG recording.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10820942
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10821360
We undertook a prospective systematic overview based on data from individual patients from five long-term randomised trials that assessed inhibitors of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in patients with left-ventricular dysfunction or heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10821361
The ELITE study showed an association between the angiotensin II antagonist losartan and an unexpected survival benefit in elderly heart-failure patients, compared with captopril, an angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. We did the ELITE II Losartan Heart Failure Survival Study to confirm whether losartan is superior to captopril in improving survival and is better tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10826457
The use of placebo in clinical trials has been vigorously debated. Placebo control may be useful in disease states, such as stage 1 and stage 2 hypertension as defined by the Sixth Report of the Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC VI), in which response rates for placebo are high or close to response rates for effective therapies, or when established interventions have significant adverse effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10826461
Adverse events during drug therapy can be assessed through measurement of 2 features: their frequency and their severity. Their severity, in turn, can be measured by assessing the distress that they cause. Our goal was to relate the magnitude of the distress induced by treatment with calcium-channel blocking agents to the change in quality of life assessed through psychosocial instruments in patients treated with calcium-channel blocking agents, either for hypertension or for angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10826499
Previous studies have shown that short-term high salt intake unmasks blunted plasma aldosterone suppression in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRsp). The aim of this study was to evaluate the response of aldosterone biosynthesis and production to a sustained exposure to the stroke-permissive Japanese-style diet (JD) in young stroke-prone and stroke-resistant SHRs. For this purpose, 6-week old male rats from both strains were divided into 2 dietary groups and received regular diet (SHR = 37, SHRsp = 32) or the JD and 1% saline to drink (SHR = 34, SHRsp = 30) for 4 weeks. All measurements were carried out at the end of the dietary periods. After JD, plasma aldosterone levels were significantly decreased in SHR (from 357.8 +/- 57 to 163.3 +/- 31.5 pg/ml, p < 0.05) but markedly increased in SHRsp (from 442 +/- 56.5 to 739 +/- 125.7 pg/ml, p < 0.05). Consistently, the adrenal aldosterone synthase expression was reduced by JD in SHR (p < 0.05), whereas it was even slightly raised by JD in SHRsp so that, at the end of JD, aldosterone synthase mRNA was 5-fold higher in SHRsp than in SHR. Urinary sodium excretion (mEq/24h) achieved lower levels in SHRsp, so that fractional excretion of sodium was 80.2 +/- 9% in SHR and 40.3 +/- 8% in SHRsp (p < 0.05) in balance studies performed at the end of JD. These different responses of mineralocorticoid biosynthesis and urinary sodium excretion to JD were not accounted for by different adaptations of the renin-angiotensin and atrial natriuretic peptide systems, of serum potassium levels, or of adrenal 11beta-hydroxylase expression in the two strains. Systolic blood pressure was comparable in both strains throughout the experiment. These results demonstrate enhanced aldosterone biosynthesis, associated with reduced urinary excretion of sodium in response to JD in SHRsp before the onset of stroke. This abnormality may play a role in the higher susceptibility to stroke of this model.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10826501
The potent vasoconstrictor peptide endothelin-1 (ET-1) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis and its complications. Since inflammation of the vessel wall is a hallmark of atherosclerosis, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the influence of ET-1 on cytokine production in human vascular smooth muscle cells (SMC) as a marker of inflammatory cell activation. ET-1 (100 pM - 1 microM) stimulated interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion from human vascular SMC in a concentration-dependent manner. The ET-A-receptor antagonist BQ-123 (10 microM), but not the ET-B-receptor antagonist BQ-788, inhibited IL-6 release. ET-1 also transiently increased IL-6 mRNA compatible with regulation of IL-6 release at the pretranslational level. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated time- and concentration-dependent activation of the proinflammatory transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in ET-1-stimulated human vascular SMC. A decoy oligodeoxynucleotide bearing the NF-kappaB binding site inhibited ET-1-stimulated IL-6 release to a great extent suggesting that this transcription factor plays a key role for cytokine production elicited by ET-1. Moreover, the antioxidant pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (10 microM) inhibited ET-1-induced IL-6 release indicating involvement of reactive oxygen species in ET-1 signaling. ET-1-stimulated IL-6 secretion was also suppressed by diphenylene iodonium (40 microM), an inhibitor of flavon-containing enzymes such as NADH/NADPH oxidase. The results demonstrate the ability of ET-1 to induce an inflammatory response in human vascular SMC. These observations may contribute to a better understanding of the role of ET-1 in inflammatory activation of the vessel wall during atherogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10827148
The aim of this study was to test the effectiveness of isosorbide-5-mononitrate (IM) as an adjunct to propranolol (PR) in the prevention of variceal rebleeding. Ninety-five cirrhotic patients with variceal bleeding were randomly assigned to treatment with PR + IM (46 patients) or PR alone (49 patients). Eighteen patients in the PR + IM group and 28 in the PR group had rebleeding during the 2 years after randomization. The actuarial probability of rebleeding 2 years after randomization was lower in the PR + IM group (40.4% vs. 57.4%) but the difference was not significant (P =. 09). However, the decrease in the risk of rebleeding reached statistical significance after stratification according to age, i.e. less than 50 versus >/=50 years old, (P =.03) or by adding an additional year of follow-up (P =.05). No significant difference was found in rebleeding index and survival. The multivariate Cox analysis indicated first, that both treatment (P =.03) and age (P =. 001) were factors predictive of rebleeding and second, that PR + MI reduced the risk of rebleeding by half (relative risk: 0.51, 95% confidence interval: 0.28-0.95). Seven patients in the PR + MI group and 1 patient in the PR group had to discontinue one of the drugs because of adverse events (P =.03). These results suggest that the addition of IM improves the efficacy of PR alone in the prevention of variceal rebleeding in cirrhotic patients. However no beneficial effects were observed on other parameters reflecting the efficacy of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10829361
Hypertension constitutes a major cardiovascular risk factor of high prevalence in the elderly, and reducing elevated blood pressure has been shown to be of significant benefit in decreasing the incidence of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease in this patient population. Elderly patients are more likely to have comorbid disorders, such as dyslipidaemia, diabetes, renal disease, atherosclerosis and, for males, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Therefore, when choosing an antihypertensive agent for elderly patients, it is particularly important to ensure that treatment does not exacerbate comorbid conditions and does not interact deleteriously with any concurrent medication that the patient is taking. The alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, doxazosin, has been shown to be an effective, well-tolerated antihypertensive therapy in elderly male patients and does not exacerbate--and in some cases improves--some other common disorders. Doxazosin has been shown to be effective in reducing the symptoms of BPH in elderly patients whose blood pressure is well controlled by concomitant antihypertensive medication. In addition, improvements in the symptoms of BPH as well as reductions in blood pressure have been observed in elderly men with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Doxazosin has been shown to have positive effects on lipid profiles and glycaemic control, which make it an attractive choice of therapy for elderly patients with hypertension and diabetes or dyslipidaemia. In addition, doxazosin is administered once daily, either in the morning or the evening, which may aid compliance, an important consideration in the elderly.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10832808
It has been hypothesized that hydrophilic and lipophilic beta-blockers have different antiarrhythmic properties because only the latter seem to reduce the rate of sudden death in post-myocardial infarction patients as well as animal models which seem to be independent of their effect on autonomic nervous system modulation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the different effects of a hydrophilic (nadolol) and lipophilic (metoprolol) beta-blocker on ventricular repolarization in normal subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10834451
This analysis was carried out to clarify the capacity of metoprolol to prevent cardiac events in Japanese post-myocardial infarction patients during a follow-up period of 16.3 months. Cardiac events occurred in 44 of 650 patients treated without beta-blockers (6.8%) and in 13 of 432 patients treated with metoprolol (3.0%), which represents a significant decline in the incidence of cardiac events among patients receiving metoprolol (p<0.01, odds ratio 0.43, 95% confidence interval 0.23-0.80). Because this was a retrospective analysis, there were unavoidable differences in the backgrounds of the patients in the 2 groups. Subgroup analyses, each focusing on a specific patient characteristic, were therefore performed. These showed that metoprolol effectively reduced cardiac events in many subgroups. Furthermore, multivariate analysis carried out to exclude any modification based on the differences in patient background confirmed metoprolol to be effective in reducing subsequent cardiac events in post-myocardial infarction patients. A large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial needs to be performed in the Japanese population to confirm the present result.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10835905
The purpose of the study was to assess the safety, adverse effects and complications of the dobutamine stress echocardiography (ED). 582 patients without previous infarction were prospectively studied with ED. There were 196 female and 368 male, age varied from 27 to 74 years, mean 52. Dobutamine was given in stepwise increasing doses from 5 to 40 mcg/kg/min. Mean maximal dose achieved was 33 mcg/kg/min. Atropine was added in 253 (43%) cases. Significant coronary artery disease was present in 323 patients (53%). There were no death, no myocardial infarction or episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia as a result of ED. The test was terminated when following conditions were revealed: target heart rate (28.9%), maximal established dose achieved (25.3%), left ventricular asynergy (19.6%), angina pectoris (10.8%), increase of systolic blood pressure above 220 mm Hg (2.6%), hypotension (7.6%), nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (1.7%). The most common non-cardiac side effects were skin tingling (19.8%), atypical chest pain(16.3%), palpitations (13.9%) and headache (7.9%). The most side effects were usually well tolerated, without the need for test cessation. The ED was terminated only in 4 (0.6%) patients because of non-cardiac side effects including nausea (0.3%) and headache (0.3%). We conclude that ED may be safely performed in routine clinical practice. Side effects were rare and usually minor. Most severe ischemic pain was relieved by test interruption and sublingual nitro-glycerine or short acting beta-blocker administration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10837379
To compare the effects on intraocular pressure (IOP) and side effects of monotherapy with either latanoprost or dorzolamide in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10839554
The recommendation for first-line therapy for hypertension remains a beta blocker or diuretic given in a low dosage. A target blood pressure of less than 140/90 mm Hg is achieved in about 50 percent of patients treated with monotherapy; two or more agents from different pharmacologic classes are often needed to achieve adequate blood pressure control. Single-dose combination antihypertension therapy is an important option that combines efficacy of blood pressure reduction and a low side effect profile with convenient once-daily dosing to enhance compliance. Combination antihypertensives include combined agents from the following pharmacologic classes: diuretics and potassium-sparing diuretics, beta blockers and diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and diuretics, angiotensin-II antagonists and diuretics, and calcium channel blockers and ACE inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10840011
Local pulse pressure (PP) is an independent determinant of carotid artery wall thickness, stronger than mean blood pressure (BP). The present study was designed to assess whether a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist-based or an ACE inhibitor-based treatment was able to reduce carotid artery wall hypertrophy through a reduction in carotid PP rather than by lowering mean BP and whether the influence of local PP reduction could also be detected at the site of a muscular artery, the radial artery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10840295
Analysis of primary prevention studies of the use of beta-blockers has shown clear reductions in variceal bleeding in cirrhotic patients with varices. In contrast, the usefulness of prophylactic endoscopic sclerotherapy, alone or in combination with propranolol, in the management of these patients is still under investigation. The present study compared the efficacy of combined sclerotherapy and propranolol versus propranolol alone in the primary prevention of hemorrhage in cirrhotic patients with varices and high (greater than 18 mm Hg) intraesophageal variceal pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10841241
Despite the high success rate of radiofrequency (RF) ablation, pharmacologic therapy is still considered the standard initial therapeutic approach for atrial flutter.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10841254
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10853498
To find the compliance with previously established criteria on the quality of prescription of medication for hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10853616
To evaluate the impact of gender on labetalol kinetics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10853626
We summarized recent published literature regarding the significance of an interaction between aspirin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in patients with various cardiovascular diseases. A MEDLINE search (January 1998-July 1999) was performed and abstracts from the 1999 American College of Cardiology and 1998 American Heart Association annual scientific sessions were reviewed to identify pertinent studies. Material for discussion was identified through a MEDLINE search from January 1996-July 1999 and through cited references. The results of several studies added to our understanding of the clinical ramifications of an aspirin-ACE inhibitor interaction, but also introduced questions. These studies are largely contradictory, but do reiterate the possibility of an interaction, if only in certain subsets of patients. Low dosages (< or = 100 mg/day) of aspirin appear to be safer in this regard than higher dosages. The frequency and severity of the interaction and possible predisposing factors await future research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10855730
Arterial hypertension is accompanied by increased morbidity and mortality and constitutes a substantial part of medical care. Antihypertensive intervention reduces the cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The aims of the study were to evaluate the relationship between cardiovascular risk factors and the blood pressure (BP), and to evaluate the percentage of patients who had achieved a BP level as recommended by the sixth report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC VI). BP was evaluated in relation to age, body mass index, duration of hypertension, cholesterol and triglyceride level, smoking status, information of regular exercise, a family history of ischemic heart disease (IHD) and drug treatment, in 220 men treated for arterial hypertension. In the univariate analyses we found a higher systolic blood pressure (SBP) with older age, higher SBP in smoking patients and lower SBP in patients with regular exercise. In a multivariate model age (p = 0.0004), smoking status (p = 0.01) and regular exercise (p= 0.06) were independently associated with SBP. There was a lower diastolic blood pressure (DBP) with older age, and age was independently associated with DBP. Office SBP was above 140 mmHg in 83% and above 160 mmHg in 44% of patients. During ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (AMBP), SBP was above 135 mmHg in 40% and above 155 mmHg in 15% of patients. In addition to male sex and hypertension there was a high percentage of other cardiovascular risk factors--43% was smoking, 21% had a family history of IHD, 77% had a se-cholesterol above 5.5 mmol/l and 48% had a se-triglyceride above 1.6 mmol/l. In a consecutive group of asymptomatic male treated hypertensive patients SBP is independently associated with age and smoking status, and DBP with age. A high percentage of the patients do not have a well controlled BP, and a high percentage have additional risk factors such as smoking, hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia and a family history of IHD. This means that there is room for much improvement in the control of hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10856394
Treatment with beta blockers results in improvement in functional status, and reduces mortality in patients with heart failure. A number of differences in the results noted could be due to additional properties of the specific beta blockers studied: absence of cardioselectivity, and existence of a vasodilator effect and of an associated antioxidant effect. We studied the effects of celiprolol, a cardioselective beta blocker with a stimulant effect on beta2 receptors. One hundred thirty-two patients presenting with chronic heart failure of various etiologies, with an ejection fraction of <40% and New York Heart Association cardiac functional status grades II and III were included in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The maximum dose of celiprolol (100 mg) was attained after 1 month. The study lasted 1 year. The primary evaluation criterion was functional class as evaluated using the Goldman questionnaire. There was no difference in efficacy between the 2 treatment groups in terms of functional class (p = 0.56). With regard to the secondary evaluation criteria, an improvement in DiBianco functional score was seen with celiprolol (p = 0.03), as well as a significant reduction in heart rate (p = 0.01). Ejection fraction increased in both groups (p = 0.15). There was no difference regarding improvement in left ventricular volume as determined at echocardiography or in exercise capacity. The safety profile of celiprolol was excellent. There was no difference in terms of cardiovascular mortality (2 receiving celiprolol vs 4 placebo), onset of arrhythmias (2 receiving celiprolol vs 3 placebo), worsening of heart failure (26 receiving celiprolol vs 23 placebo), or noncardiovascular adverse events (9 receiving celiprolol vs 14 placebo). The absence of a significant efficacy of celiprolol, a beta blocker with vasodilator properties, but exerting stimulation of beta2 receptors, suggests an unfavorable role of this latter property in heart failure. However, the safety profile of celiprolol was excellent. This beta blocker may consequently be used for its other indications, hypertension and angina, in patients presenting with altered cardiac function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10856401
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10856731
Beta-blocker therapy results in a functional benefit in patients with heart failure (CHF) due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). This study assessed if similar effects were observed in patients with ischemic heart disease (CAD), NYHA II-III after 6 months of therapy with metoprolol. Methods and results: Fifty-two patients with CHF secondary to DCM (26 patients) and CAD (26 patients) and a left ventricular ejection fraction (EF)<40% were enrolled in the placebo-controlled study. The study medication was titrated over 6 weeks, the mean final dosage was 135 mg/day. Three patients died due to cardiogenic shock, two received placebo and one metoprolol. Eight patients did not complete the study due to non-compliance. Metoprolol significantly reduced heart rate at rest and after submaximal and maximal exercise. Vo(2)-max and Vo(2)-AT as well as the 6-min walk test improved significantly after metoprolol treatment. There was a significant increase in EF at rest (27.3-35. 2%), submaximal (28.5-37.7%) and maximal exercise (28.7-40.9%) in the metoprolol-treated patients. No differences were found between patients with CAD and DCM. We also observed reduced left ventricular volumes. Conclusion: The additional therapy with metoprolol improved cardiac function and the cardiopulmonary exercise capacity in patients with CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10856736
This is a summary of reports of presentation made at the American College of Cardiology 49th Scientific Sessions, Anaheim, 12-15 March 2000. Studies with a particular interest for heart failure physicians have been reviewed. OPTIME-CHF: Outcomes of a Prospective Trial of Intravenous Milrinone for Exacerbations of Chronic Heart Failure. OPTIME-CHF was a randomised-controlled trial comparing a 48-h infusion of Milrinone or standard therapy in 951 patients recruited over a 2-year period. Patients were excluded if the investigator believed their clinical condition mandated inotropic therapy. Patients were randomised within 48 h of admission for an acute exacerbation of chronic heart failure to receive Milrinone or placebo infision for 48 h. Of the patients 43% were diabetics, 70% were receiving an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, 25% were already on a beta-Blocker, and 34% had atrial fibrillation. There was no significant difference between the two groups in length of hospital stay during the index admission, subsequent readmissions and days in hospital over the following 60 days. Subjective clinical assessment scores were also no different. There was an average admission rate over the next year of one per patient in both groups. However, there was a significant increase in the incidence of sustained hypotension in the Milrinone group, which accounted for all of the increased adverse event rates for the active therapy. The 60-day mortality was 10% in both groups. This and previous trials of the oral formulation of Milrinone have now clearly demonstrated a lack of benefit with Milrinone in either during acute exacerbations of or in stable severe chronic heart failure [Packer M, Carver JR, Rodeheffer RJ et al. Effect of oral Milrinone on mortality in severe chronic heart failure. N Engl J Med 1991;325:1468-1475.]. Medium sized studies of Milrinone in patients with milder severities of heart failure also suggested an adverse impact on prognosis in the presence or absence of digoxin [DiBianco R, Shabetai R, Kostuk W, Moran J, Schlant RC, Wright R. A comparison of oral Milrinone, digoxin, and their combination in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure. N Engl J Med 1989;320:677-683.]. Whether Milrinone even has a role for the management of a haemodyamic crisis requiring inotropic therapy must also be questioned.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10857839
To determine the impact of coadminstration of systemic beta-blockers on the ocular hypotensive efficacy and safety of topical timolol, a nonselective, beta-blocker, and that of brimonidine, an alpha2-selective adrenergic agonist, in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10860176
Administration of beta-blockers reduces mortality among old persons during and after acute myocardial infarction. The American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines recommend that persons without contraindications to use of beta-blockers should be administered beta-blockers within a few days of myocardial infarction (if administration is not initiated acutely) and that their administration should be continued indefinitely. These guidelines also recommend the use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in treating persons within the first 24 h of suspected onset of acute myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation in two or more anterior precordial leads or with congestive heart failure in the absence of significant hypotension or other contraindications to use of ACE inhibitors; and persons during and after convalescence from acute myocardial infarction with congestive heart failure associated with an abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) or with asymptomatic left ventricular systolic dysfunction with a LVEF < 40%. These guidelines state that there are no class I indications for using calcium antagonists after myocardial infarction. If patients have persistent angina pectoris after myocardial infarction despite treatment with beta-blockers and nitrates or hypertension inadequately controlled by other drugs, administration of a nondihydropyridine calcium antagonist such as verapamil or diltiazem should be added to the therapeutic regimen if the LVEF is normal. If the LVEF is abnormal, administration of amlodipine or felodipine should be added to the therapeutic regimen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10861116
To assess the efficacy of Ligustrazine in combination with propranolol in the prevention of recurrent esophageal varices bleeding following liver cirrhosis, and its act mechanism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10862571
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10867087
Previous reports indicate that patients who do not develop Q waves after thrombolytic therapy are a different population with a better long-term survival than those who do develop Q waves. However, the use of resources, quality of life, and health status of this population have not been fully evaluated. Using data from the Economics and Quality of Life subset of the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and tPA for Occluded Arteries study, we examined 30-day and 1-year mortality, use of resources, and quality-of-life measures among 1,830 of 3,000 patients with acute myocardial infarction and ST-segment elevation treated with thrombolytic therapy. At hospital discharge, 555 patients (30.2%) had not developed Q waves. These patients had lower mortality than patients with Q waves at 30 days (1.6% vs 4.5%, p <0.01) and at 1 year (4.7% vs 6.8%, p <0.04). Recurrent chest pain and dyspnea were similar at 30 days and 1 year. Patients without Q waves had significantly more angiography and trends toward higher readmission, revascularization, and use of calcium antagonists at 30 days. Angiography, revascularization, readmission, and quality of life were equivalent from 30 days to 1 year, with no sign of late instability. Logistic regression analysis showed an association between in-hospital revascularization and better survival and quality of life at 1 year. Conversely, there was no association between in-hospital use of calcium antagonists and outcome to explain the lower mortality in non-Q-wave patients. The absence of Q waves after thrombolytic therapy is a marker of success, implying better prognosis and equivalent quality of life, use of resources, and health status than for patients with Q-wave acute myocardial infarction and no sign of long-term unstable clinical course.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10867093
The incidence and clinical predictors of the development of intolerance to VVIR pacing have not been extensively studied in prospective long-term randomized trials comparing different pacing modes. The frequency and clinical factors predicting intolerance to ventricular pacing are controversial. The Pacemaker Selection in the Elderly (PASE) Trial enrolled 407 patients aged >/=65 years in a 30-month, single-blind, randomized, controlled comparison of quality of life and clinical outcomes with ventricular pacing and dual-chamber pacing in patients undergoing dual-chamber pacemaker implantation for standard clinically accepted indications. We reviewed the clinical, hemodynamic, and electrophysiologic variables at the time of pacemaker implantation in 204 patients enrolled in the PASE trial and randomized to the VVIR mode, some of whom subsequently required crossover (reprogramming) to DDDR pacing. During a median follow-up of 555 days, 53 patients (26%) crossed over from VVIR to DDDR pacing. A decrease in systolic blood pressure during ventricular pacing at the time of pacemaker implantation (p = 0.001), use of beta blockers at the time of randomization (p = 0.01), and nonischemic cardiomyopathy (p = 0.04) were the only variables that predicted crossover in the Cox multivariate regression model. After reprogramming to the dual-chamber mode, patients showed improvement in all aspects of quality of life, with significant improvements in physical and emotional role. The high incidence of crossover from VVIR to DDDR pacing along with significant improvements in quality of life after crossover to DDDR pacing strongly favors dual-chamber pacing compared with single-chamber ventricular pacing in elderly patients requiring permanent pacing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10868496
The relative efficacy of antitachycardia pacing implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ATPICD) and sotalol in the treatment of ventricular tachyarrhythmias is controversial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10872552
The amino-terminal polymorphisms, Arg16Gly and Gln27Glu, of the beta2-adrenergic receptor (beta2AR) have been shown to affect regulation of the receptor expression by an agonist in cell culture studies. The Arg16Gly polymorphism has also been recently shown to be associated with essential hypertension. We therefore evaluated whether the amino-terminal polymorphisms of beta2AR are associated with hypertension in a Caucasian population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10872566
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of angiotensin II (Ang II) antagonist losartan and the beta-blocker atenolol in the treatment of patients with isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) after 16 weeks of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10873979
To evaluate the short term cardiovascular, respiratory, and intraocular pressure (IOP) effects of four glaucoma medications in newly diagnosed glaucoma patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10877373
To compare the clinical success rates and quality of life impact of brimonidine 0.2% with timolol 0.5% in newly diagnosed patients naive to glaucoma therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10878693
Blood pressure (BP) has been found to vary between examiners, for example it is often higher when measured by a physician than by a nurse. Whether the location for the physician-measured BP is also a source of variation has, however, not been studied. Hence, we found it of interest to find out if the location used for examination was of any significance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10891904
Autoantibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD-A) are present in type 1 diabetes and stiff man syndrome (SMS), and have also been reported in cerebellar ataxia. Epilepsy was present in 4 of 19 patients with SMS and GAD-A, implying that epilepsy sometimes is associated with anti-GAD autoimmunity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10894441
Changes in heart rate (HR) may contribute to the higher incidence of cardiovascular events in the morning.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10895836
To assess whether ACE inhibitors are superior to alternative agents for the prevention of cardiovascular events in patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10896486
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10898425
The primary objective of the present study was to assess the efficacy of metoprolol CR/XL to reduce the risk of relapse after cardioversion of persistent atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10903600
To compare three options for the elective treatment of portal hypertension during a 10-year period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10904510
The Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) demonstrated that treating isolated systolic hypertension in older patients decreased incidence of total stroke, but whether all types of stroke were reduced was not evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10908094
The beneficial effects of beta-adrenergic blockade on mortality rates in patients after a myocardial infarction have been clear for decades. The efficacy data are now just as apparent for patients with heart failure. Although there are many subgroups of patients in whom the mortality effects of beta-blockers are not proven, knowledge about these specific populations continues to increase. Nevertheless, more information is needed so that we can properly tailor our therapy for individual patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10908095
Sudden death accounts for one third to one half of the deaths in patients with heart failure. Recent studies using beta-adrenergic blockers in patients with reduced systolic function and heart failure symptoms have shown significant reductions in overall mortality rates. This article discusses the role of beta-blockers in preventing sudden death in these patients. Six large beta-blocker trials in patients with heart failure have been published to date, with a combined relative risk reduction for sudden death of 38% (confidence interval [CI] 0.53-0.23; P < .001). Although dependent on a nonmechanistic definition of sudden death, the clinical trials of beta-blockers to date have shown that they significantly reduce the risk of sudden death in patients with heart failure. Future studies are required to define the role of other heart failure therapies in the context of this new standard of care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10908097
Recognition of the role of the sympathetic nervous system in chronic heart failure has resulted in dramatic changes in the way heart failure is viewed, providing strong evidence for the therapeutic role for beta-adrenergic blocking agents. This treatment strategy does not provide short-term hemodynamic improvement and may even worsen symptoms initially. However, beta-blockers can be administered with good or even excellent tolerability by slowly withdrawing adrenergic support to the failing heart. Results of clinical trials have shown that long-term treatment with beta-blockers improves ventricular function and reduces mortality rates in patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure. Although the improvement in ventricular function is a beta-blocker class effect, there are distinct differences in antiadrenergic activity and tolerability among the first-, second-, and third-generation agents. These differences--as well as practical strategies for dose titration and the management of decompensation--are the focus of this article.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10912742
We aimed to analyze the trends in antihypertensive therapy in Spain during the period 1986 to 1994, as well as the change in the pattern of different drugs, in relation to different national/international recommendations for hypertension treatment. Antihypertensive consumption was studied using the defined daily dose (DDD) and the DHD (DDD/1000 inhabitants/day) of each drug, as defined by the Drug Utilization Research Group of the European Office of the World Health Organization. The anatomical classification of hypotensive drugs has been made according to EPhMRA (European Pharmaceutical Market Association) guidelines. A significant increase of 117.4% (41.39/90 DHD) in antihypertensive drug consumption was observed in the period 1986 to 1994. In 1986 diuretics were the most consumed (30.27 DHD), followed by calcium antagonists (5.37), beta-blockers (3.93), and the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (1.37). In 1994 ACE inhibitors, calcium antagonists, and beta-blockers increased significantly (P < .0001), whereas diuretics were still the most commonly prescribed. Nifedipine and captopril were the most used among calcium antagonists and ACE inhibitors. National and international recommendations had no effect on prescription patterns. Antihypertensive therapy of all types is increasing in Spain. Diuretics remain the most popular, beta-blockers stay stable, whereas the newer types are rising rapidly. National and international recommendations had no effect on prescription patterns.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10912975
To determine if assessment of maternal hemodynamics could predict women at risk for the development of preeclampsia, if treatment directed at hemodynamic abnormalities before the onset of hypertension could prevent preeclampsia, and if mothers could be treated in a way that protects fetal growth.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10917072
In this review, we summarise Vaughan Williams' classification of antiarrhythmic agents and the trials that have explored their efficacy in reducing mortality after myocardial infarction (MI). After analysing the data, it is clear that there is no role for class I antiarrhythmic agents as prophylaxis after MI since their use has been associated with increased mortality. Class II agents, i.e. beta-blockers, have demonstrated a reduction in mortality in combined and individual trials which extended for up to 6 years after the initial event. The class III drug, d,l-sotalol has been shown to have possible benefit, whereas its isomer without any beta-blocking properties, dexsotalol, has been shown to increase the incidence of arrhythmias. Amiodarone appears to reduce the incidence of deaths due to arrhythmia and sudden deaths without changing overall mortality. As a group, the calcium antagonists, class IV agents, have not been shown to reduce mortality and, in the case of nifedipine, may even increase it. Verapamil has been shown to be beneficial in one large study and may have a role in those patients in whom the use of beta-blockers is contraindicated. At this time, we recommend early implementation of beta-blockers for all patients without contraindications after MI. Further studies evaluating implantable defibrillators as primary and secondary prevention have provided significant risk reductions in certain high risk patient subsets. Future efforts will need to focus on more accurate risk stratification of post-MI patients and the role of both defibrillators and, possibly, amiodarone in improving survival.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10918548
The usefulness of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) vs casual blood pressure measurement in the physicians practice (PM) for the routine management of patients with hypertension concerning total mortality and morbidity has been compared in a prospective, randomised, open multicentre study with a 5-year follow-up. The study was performed in general practitioners offices in Germany from 1991 to 1997. A total of 1298 patients with essential hypertension were included. Cardio- and cerebrovascular events, total mortality/morbidity and drug-saving effects in hypertensives treated according to two different methods of blood pressure measurement were the primary and secondary endpoints of the study. A total of 239 patients from group 1 (ABPM, n = 651), and 208 from group 2 (PM, n = 647) prematurely discontinued the study. The reason for discontinuation in 55 of these patients (20 from group 1 and 35 from group 2) was that they reached the main endpoint (total mortality/morbidity and cardio- and cerebrovascular events) of the study. The difference was statistically significant (P = 0.037) in favour of group 1. Cardio- and cerebrovascular events also occurred in a lower number of patients (n = 14) in group 1, as compared to group 2 (n = 24). The difference however was not significant (P = 0. 097). A difference in a direct drug-saving effect could not be observed between the two groups but 22% of the initially screened patients were detected with the ABPM to have white coat hypertension and thus these patients did not receive antihypertensive treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10919124
The objective of the present study was to analyze the factors related with changes of microalbuminuria during antihypertensive treatment in patients with essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10920067
Both metoprolol and carvedilol produce hemodynamic and clinical benefits in patients with chronic heart failure; carvedilol exerts greater antiadrenergic effects than metoprolol, but it is unknown whether this pharmacological difference results in hemodynamic and clinical differences between the 2 drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10923574
The effects seen in clinical trials may not translate to actual practice situations. We examined the persistence of blood pressure effects 31 months after a clinical trial of treatment with hypotensive agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10924295
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10924316
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the addition of carvedilol to conventional therapy in dilated cardiomyopathy patients is associated with further benefits in the treatment of complex non-sustained ventricular arrhythmias (Lown class III, IV or V).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10927824
To determine possible differences between the control of hypertension in elderly patients and in young patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10933570
Essential hypertension is often accompanied by abnormalities of the coagulation/fibrinolytic system, predisposing to a procoagulant state. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of atenolol (beta1-blocker agent) and irbesartan (angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist) on plasma levels of hemostatic/fibrinolytic and endothelial function markers in a cohort of previously untreated hypertensives. Fifty-four patients were randomly assigned to atenolol 25 to 150 mg (26 patients) or irbesartan 75 to 300 mg (28 patients). The plasma levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 antigen, thrombomodulin, tissue factor pathway inhibitor antigen, fibrinogen, and factor XII were determined before and after 6 months of therapy. Age, gender distribution, body mass index, lipid profile, and baseline values of the measured markers were similar in both groups. Baseline values for systolic and diastolic blood pressure, as well as the reduction after treatment, were not significantly different between the two groups. Treatment with irbesartan was associated with a significant decrease in the levels of all the parameters. Similar findings were observed in the atenolol group, except for factor XII and tissue factor pathway inhibitor levels, which were not significantly decreased in this group. The reduction, however, of fibrinogen, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, and thrombomodulin was significantly greater in the irbesartan than in the atenolol group. In conclusion, the results indicated that, despite an equally controlled blood pressure, 6-month therapy with irbesartan was associated with a more favorable modification of hemostatic/fibrinolytic status than atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10934984
Elevated blood pressure is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular illness and death. Efforts to reduce that risk have led to recommendations for a wide array of nondrug and drug therapies. Choosing the optimal first-line drug for hypertensive patients should address a hierarchy of treatment goals: decrease in morbidity and mortality associated with hypertension, decrease in blood pressure, good tolerance, dosing convenience and low cost. This article examines the evidence for beta-blockers as a class of first-line antihypertensive drugs in light of these treatment goals. The evidence indicates that beta-blockers are probably not as effective in reducing morbidity and mortality as low-dose thiazide diuretics and that there may be significant differences in effectiveness among various beta-blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10935777
Serial echocardiographic investigations were carried out on patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, to evaluate treatment effects on left ventricular (LV) performance during therapy with either metoprolol or captopril. Thirty-two patients (23 males and 9 females) with mild to moderate symptoms of heart failure (NYHA II-III) and a mean age of 49 years were included in the investigation. The patients were investigated with Doppler echocardiography before treatment, after 3 and 6 months of treatment (either metoprolol or captopril) and 1 month after withdrawal of treatment. Intra- and inter-investigator reproducibility was acceptable, with a coefficient of variation of less than 5% for LV dimensions. A reduction in LV dimensions was seen in both treatment groups. In the metoprolol group there was also an increase in LV stroke volume and fractional shortening. The non-invasive data were in accordance with invasive measurements of stroke volume and LV filling pressure. In patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and mild to moderate symptoms of heart failure, echocardiography seemed to be sufficiently reproducible to be used for determination of treatment effects in a longitudinal heart failure study. Both metoprolol and captopril were well tolerated and had favourable effects on LV performance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10937930
Carvedilol improves left ventricular (LV) function when heart failure is due to LV systolic dysfunction, but the magnitude of the response is heterogeneous among patients with coronary disease, possibly reflecting the presence or volume of hibernating myocardium.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10937931
This article reviews the design and results of REACH-1 (Research on Endothelin Antagonism in Chronic Heart Failure) and MERIT (Metoprolol controlled and Extended release, Randomised Intervention Trial in congestive Heart Failure), two recently reported clinical trials that investigated, respectively, the role of a non-selective endothelin antagonist (bosentan) and of a beta-selective blocker for the treatment of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10937953
Left ventricular systolic function is reduced during episodes of silent ischaemia in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). In most normal subjects left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) increases at least 5% during exercise whereas LVEF often remains unchanged or decreases in patients with CAD. The anti-ischaemic effect of calcium antagonists is well documented including a capability to reduce exercise-induced electrocardiographic ST-depressions, whereas the effect of these drugs on LV volume changes during exercise in patients with silent ischaemia is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10937984
To evaluate the clinical characteristics and long-term outcomes of advanced heart failure patients (NYHA Class IIIb-IV) receiving beta-blocker therapy vs. those patients not receiving beta-blockers at randomization in the FIRST trial, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of epoprostenol vs. usual care in advanced heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10937988
There are currently many on-going clinical trials assessing therapies for the treatment of patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10938490
Carvedilol has been shown to be beneficial for patients with heart failure, but it is not clear how it should be initiated in routine clinical practice, particularly in the elderly. This study is a retrospective review of 19 patients of age 80+/-4 years with heart failure, who had Carvedilol treatment initiated in a routine outpatient clinic. No patient experienced a worsening of their heart failure or required admission to hospital. There was a mean reduction in heart rate of 11 beats/min. Carvedilol was tolerated by 68% of the patients. Thus, Carvedilol can be safely initiated in a routine outpatient clinic in appropriately selected elderly patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10938494
The MERIT-HF study was designed to investigate the effect of once-daily dosing of metoprolol succinate CR/XL added to standard therapy in patients with chronic heart failure. A screening programme, aiming at identifying eligible patients for the study was used by 231 out of 313 sites, resulting in 8912 screened patients. These patients were older, more often women, had marginally higher ejection fraction and were more often in NYHA class IV compared to the finally randomised patients. There was a positive correlation between the number of screened and randomised patients and due to the high inclusion rate the number of randomised patients was increased from 3200 to 3991 patients. The clinical events were defined by a manual and were based on identical classifications made independently by two members of an Independent Endpoint Committee. Data from the case report form and the classifications made by the Endpoint Committee were in accordance for hospitalisation due to worsening heart failure on 722 occasions. On 207 occasions the data from the case report forms and the classification made by the committee differed regarding this clinical event. The Independent Safety Committee monitored safety aspects of the study by using asymmetric group sequential procedures. The study was stopped early on recommendation from the Independent Safety Committee, when the second pre-specified interim analysis (50% of total number of expected deaths) showed that the criterion for stopping due to benefit had been met and exceeded. In conclusion, a screening programme facilitated patient recruitment and showed the characteristics of the background population, the event classification was improved by using an independent endpoint committee, and the safety monitoring allowed an early closure of the study due to mortality benefit, without jeopardising the final analyses of the results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10938495
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10938496
The great majority of post-infarction studies of beta-blockers were conducted in an era when these agents were widely held to be contra-indicated for the management of heart failure. We now know that beta-blockers are highly effective for the management of patients with chronic stable heart failure. However, there remains uncertainty about their role in the setting of post-infarction heart failure and ventricular dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10942632
Abdominal/visceral obesity is associated with blunted growth hormone (GH) secretion and an unfavourable lipoprotein pattern. In this study, the effect of GH treatment on LDL size and on serum lipoprotein concentrations was determined in abdominally obese men. Thirty men, aged 48-66 years, with a body mass index (BMI) of 25-35 kg/m(2)and a waist:hip ratio of >0.95, received treatment with GH (9. 5 microg/kg/day) or placebo for 9 months. Serum concentrations of total cholesterol (TC), low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) and apolipoprotein B (apoB) were reduced (P<0.05, P<0.05 and P<0.001 vs placebo, respectively). Serum lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] concentration increased (P<0.05 vs. placebo). Mean low density lipoprotein (LDL) particle diameter was marginally increased by active treatment as compared with placebo (P =0.08). No changes were observed in the serum concentrations of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C), apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) and apolipoprotein E (apoE). In conclusion, 9 months of GH treatment in abdominally obese men beneficially reduced serum concentrations of TC, LDL-C and apoB, and marginally increased mean LDL diameter, while serum Lp(a) increased. The ultimate effect of GH therapy on the cardiovascular risk remains, however, to be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10942742
We conducted a prospective, multicenter, randomized comparison of implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) versus antiarrhythmic drug therapy in survivors of cardiac arrest secondary to documented ventricular arrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10946034
Decreased low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle size is associated with coronary heart disease (CHD) risk among middle-aged Caucasian populations, and has been consistently correlated with increased plasma levels of triglyceride and decreased levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. This study examines whether these risk factors predict CHD among older Japanese-American men. With use of the Honolulu Heart Program Lipoprotein Exam 3 (1980 to 1982) as baseline, and 12-year follow-up for CHD events, a nested, case-control study was designed. One hundred forty-five incident CHD cases were identified and matched to 2 controls each. LDL particle diameter (size) was determined by gradient gel electrophoresis. A 10-angstrom (A) decrease in LDL size at baseline was associated with increased risk of incident CHD (relative risk 1.28, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 1.63). After adjustment for baseline risk factors, the LDL size association was no longer statistically significant (relative risk 1.13, 95% confidence interval 0.86 to 1.49). When principal components analysis was used to define a composite variable for LDL size, triglycerides, and HDL cholesterol, this component predicted CHD independent of smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, body mass index, hypertension, diabetes, and beta-blocker use (p <0.01). Therefore, this prospective analysis of data from older, Japanese-American men demonstrated that decreased LDL size is a univariate predictor of incident CHD, and that a composite risk factor of LDL size, triglyceride, and HDL cholesterol was a risk factor for CHD independent of other risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10950398
The Losartan Intervention For Endpoint (LIFE) reduction in hypertension study is a double-blind, prospective, parallel-group study comparing the effects of losartan with those of atenolol on the reduction of cardiovascular complications in patients (n = 9,194) with essential hypertension and with electrocardiographically (ECG) documented left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). Baseline blood pressure was 174.4/97.8 mm Hg (mean), age 66.9 years, body mass index 28.0 kg/m2; 54.1% were women and 12.5% had diabetes mellitus. This population will be treated until at least 1,040 have a primary endpoint. After five scheduled visits and 12 months of follow-up, blood pressure decreased by 23.9/12.8 mm Hg to 150.5/85.1 mm Hg (target < 140/90 mm Hg). The mandatory titration level of < or = 160/95 mm Hg was reached by 72.1% of the patients. At the 12-month visit, 22.7% of all patients were taking blinded study drug alone, 44.3% were taking blinded drug plus hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), and 17.7% were taking blinded drugs plus HCTZ and additional drugs. Controlling for all other variables, patients in the US received more medication and had 2.4 times the odds of achieving blood pressure control than patients in the rest of the study (P < .001). Previously untreated patients (n = 2,530) had a larger initial decrease in blood pressure compared with those previously treated. Diabetics (n = 1,148) needed more medication than nondiabetics to gain blood pressure control. Only 13.9% of the patients had discontinued blinded study drug and 1.4% missed the revisit at 12 months. These data demonstrate both the successful lowering of blood pressure during 12 months of follow-up in a large cohort of patients with hypertension and LVH on ECG, but also emphasize the need for two or more drugs to control high blood pressure in most of these patients. Being previously treated and having diabetes were associated with less blood pressure response, whereas living in the US indicated better blood pressure control. It has been possible to keep most of these patients with complicated hypertension taking blinded study drug for 12 months.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10951826
To assess the effects of carvedilol in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10951880
Evaluate risk factors of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and the importance of burdening on a bicycle ergometer (BE) in the diagnosis of IHD in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects. CHARACTERISTIC OF GROUP: The authors evaluated in a retrospective study all 308 patients subjected to BE during the period 11/98-1/99 in Konstantinovy Lzn. Characteristics of diabetic vs. non-diabetic subjects: number (97 vs. 211), men (70.1 vs. 70.14%) mean age (59.76 vs. 58.01), height (1.71 vs. 1.71 m), body weight (85.91 vs. 81.40 kg), BMI (29.36 vs. 27.68 g/m2), total cholesterol (5.73 vs. 5.51 mmol/l,) triacylglycerols (2.63 vs. 2.08 mmol/l), fasting blood sugar level (7.31 vs. 4.88 mmol/l), hypertension (24.74 vs. 37.44%), hyperuricaemia (40.21 vs. 27.01%), IHD (93.81 vs. 93.84%), ischaemia of the lower extremities (6.19 vs. 13.74%), cerebrovascular episodes (7.22 vs. 5.21%), smokers 10.31 vs. 5.21%), ex-smokers (47.42 vs. 57.82%), non-smokers (42.27 vs. 36.97%). The diabetic patients were treated in 31.96% with PAD, in 5.15% with insulin and in 62.89% by diet only.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10952492
Infarct size as determined by perfusion imaging is an independent predictor of mortality after implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) implantation in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias (VA). However, its value as a predictor of VA recurrence and hospitalisation after ICD implantation is unknown. Therefore, the objective of this study was to evaluate whether infarct size as determined by perfusion imaging can help to identify patients who are at high risk for recurrence of VA and hospitalisation after ICD implantation. We studied 56 patients with CAD and life-threatening VA. Before ICD implantation, all patients underwent a uniform study protocol including a thallium-201 stress-redistribution perfusion study. A defect score as a measurement of infarct size was calculated using a 17-segment 5-point scoring system. Study endpoints during follow-up were documented episodes of appropriate anti-tachycardia pacing and/or shocks for VA and cardiac hospitalisation for electrical storm (defined as three or more appropriate ICD interventions within 24 h), heart failure or angina. After a mean follow-up of 470+/-308 days, 22 patients (39%) had recurrences of VA. In univariate analysis, predictors for recurrence were: (a) ventricular tachycardia (VT) as the initial presenting arrhythmia (86% vs 59% for patients without ICD therapy, P=0.04), (b) treatment with beta-blockers (36% vs 68%, P=0.03) and (c) a defect score (DS) > or = 20 (64% vs 32%, P=0.03). In multivariate analysis, VT as the presenting arrhythmia (chi2=5.51, P=0.02) and a DS > or = 20 (chi2=4.22, P=0.04) remained independent predictors. Cardiac hospitalisation was more frequent in patients with a DS > or = 20 (44% vs 13% for patients with DS < 20, P=0.015) and this was particularly due to more frequent hospitalisations for electrical storm (24% vs 3% for patients with DS < 20, P=0.037). The extent of scarring determined by perfusion imaging can separate patients with CAD into high- and low-risk groups for recurrence of VA and cardiac hospitalisation after ICD implantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10952803
At the time of diagnosis of cirrhosis, varices are present in about 60% of decompensated and 30% of compensated patients. The risk factors for the first episode of variceal bleeding in cirrhotic patients are the severity of liver dysfunction, a large size of the varices and the presence of endoscopic red colour signs, but only a third of patients who suffer variceal haemorrhage demonstrate the above risk factors. The only treatment that does not require sophisticated equipment or the skills of a specialist, and is immediately available, is vasoactive drug therapy. Hence, drug therapy should be considered to be the initial treatment of choice and can be administered while the patient is transferred to hospital, as has been done in one recent study. Moreover, drug therapy is no longer considered to be only a 'stop-gap' therapy until definitive endoscopic therapy is performed. Several recent trials have reported an efficacy similar to that of emergency sclerotherapy in the control of variceal bleeding. Furthermore, recent evidence suggests that those patients with high variceal or portal pressure are likely to continue to bleed or re-bleed early, implying that prolonged therapy lowering the portal pressure over several days may be the optimal treatment. Pharmacological treatment with beta-blockers is safe, effective and the standard long-term treatment for the prevention of recurrence of variceal bleeding. The combination of beta-blockers with isosorbide-5-mononitrate needs further testing in randomized controlled trials. The use of haemodynamic targets for the reduction of the HVPG response needs further study, and surrogate markers of the pressure response need evaluation. Ligation has recently been compared with beta-blockers for primary prophylaxis, but there is as yet no good evidence to recommend banding for primary prophylaxis if beta-blockers can be given.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10954004
To investigate whether calcium antagonists are nephroprotective in hypertensive cyclosporine-treated renal allograft recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10954006
Left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy on echocardiogram (ECG) strongly predicts coronary heart disease events, but the mechanisms linking increased LV mass to ischemic vascular events is uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10954008
To assess longitudinally the association of serum uric acid and its change due to diuretic treatment with cardiovascular events in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10955372
Earlier studies have reported on the potentiated muscarinic vasoconstriction of intracoronary acetylcholine after metoprolol application in patients with coronary artery disease. The present study investigated the effect of celiprolol, atenolol, and placebo on acetylcholine-induced vasomotion in patients with coronary artery disease. Furthermore, direct effects on coronary vasomotion and on hemodynamics were evaluated. Acetylcholine (intracoronary concentrations of 6.3x10(-7), 2.0x10(-6), and 6.3x10(-6) M) was given before and after double-blind celiprolol (0.30 mg/kg IV), atenolol (0.15 mg/kg IV), or placebo in 3x12 patients. Vasomotion was investigated by quantitative coronary angiography in proximal and distal segments of epicardial coronary arteries, and by the determination of the coronary resistance index based on Doppler-flow measurements. The investigated drugs had no direct affect on the diameter of the epicardial coronary arteries. However, celiprolol, in contrast to atenolol, significantly reduced systemic vascular resistance (change after atenolol: from 1,855+/-308 to 2,161+/-550 dyne s cm(-5); celiprolol: 1,691+/-435 to 1,411+/-343 dyne s cm(-5); and placebo: 1,722+/-215 to 1,710+/-213 dyne s cm(-5), p<0.001) and the coronary resistance index (change after atenolol: 2.52+/-3.58 to 2.86+/-4.24; celiprolol: 2.70+/-1.55 to 2.49+/-2.26; and placebo: 1.97+/-1.35 to 1.92+/-1.25, p<0.01). Celiprolol, atenolol, and placebo did not have different effects on acetylcholine-induced coronary vasomotion of epicardial conductance vessels (diminution of proximal lumen diameter before/after atenolol: 0.42+/-0.39/0.44+/-0.39 mm; celiprolol: 0.32+/-0.26/0.30+/-0.24 mm; and placebo: 0.36+/-0.29/0.43+/-0.40 mm) and of coronary resistance vessels (reduction of coronary resistance index before/after atenolol: 1.95 +/-4.74/ 1.92+/-3.74; celiprolol: 0.98+/-0.73/1.41+/-1.50; and placebo: 1.16+/-1.29/1.16+/-1.04). In contrast to atenolol, celiprolol possesses vasodilative properties in systemic and coronary resistance vessels. There was no direct effect on the diameter of conductance vessels. Acetylcholine-induced coronary vasomotion both in conductance and resistance vessels was not influenced by the beta blockers that were studied. This suggests that atenolol and celiprolol do not influence endothelium-dependent, nitric oxide related vasomotion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10961964
Elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) serum levels, an exquisitely sensitive objective marker of inflammation, relate to long-term prognosis in patients with coronary artery disease and in apparently healthy men. Because abnormalities of endothelial regulation of vascular function may contribute to the occurrence of coronary events, we tested the hypothesis that elevated CRP levels are associated with an abnormal systemic endothelial vascular reactivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10972367
Calcium antagonists are a first-line treatment for hypertension. The effectiveness of diltiazem, a non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, in reducing cardiovascular morbidity or mortality is unclear. We compared the effects of diltiazem with that of diuretics, beta-blockers, or both on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10972368
The efficacy of antihypertensive drugs newer than diuretics and beta-blockers has not been established. We compared the effects of the calcium-channel blocker nifedipine once daily with the diuretic combination co-amilozide on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in high-risk patients with hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10972606
To evaluate the cardiovascular effects of a propofol-ketamine combination in patients undergoing coronary artery surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10977478
To examine the economic burden of and treatment patterns for congestive heart failure (CHF) in a managed care population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10978803
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10979055
To analyze the available data to assess the benefits of antihypertensive therapy in hypertensive patients with diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10980208
Chronotropic incompetence, or an attenuated heart rate response to exercise, has been shown to be associated with an adverse outcome. It is not known whether chronotropic incompetence predicts all-cause mortality independent of angiographic severity of coronary artery disease (CAD). Study subjects included consecutive patients who underwent first-time, symptom-limited exercise treadmill testing and coronary angiography within 90 days; no patient was taking beta blockers or had a history of heart failure, valve disease, or prior revascularization. Chronotropic response was measured in 2 ways: (1) failure to reach 85% of the age-predicted maximum heart rate, and (2) a low chronotropic index, a measure of exercise heart rate response that accounts for effects of age, physical fitness, and resting heart rate. Angiographic severity of CAD was assessed using the Duke Prognostic Weight Score, with a score > or = 42 considered to be indicative of severe CAD. Among 384 eligible patients, failure to reach 85% of the age-predicted maximum heart rate occurred in 61 (16%) and a low chronotropic index was noted in 133 (35%). Severe CAD was present in 63 (16%). During 6 years of follow-up there were 56 deaths. Mortality was predicted by failure to reach target heart rate (RR 1.85, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01 to 3.39, chi-square = 4, p = 0.05), by severe CAD (RR 2.21, 95% CI 1.24 to 3.95, chi-square = 8, p = 0.007), and, most strongly, by a low chronotropic index (RR 2.72, 95% CI 1.60 to 4.61, chi-square = 15, p = 0.0002). In a multivariable model, low chronotropic index remained predictive of death (adjusted RR 2.22, 95% CI 1.29 to 3.82, p = 0.004), whereas severe CAD no longer predicted death (adjusted RR 1.27, 95% CI 0.70 to 2.31, p > 0.4). Thus, chronotropic incompetence is a strong and independent predictor of death, even after accounting for the angiographic severity of CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10980854
Sudden cardiac death remains a major public health care problem, generally occurring in patients with ventricular dysfunction. Beta-blockers, already of proven benefit for patients after myocardial infarction, have recently been shown to improve functional status and mortality outcomes in patients with heart failure. Amiodarone, a potent antiarrhythmic drug, was recently studied in a number of randomized clinical trials involving patients with heart failure and patients after myocardial infarction. Routine use of amiodarone cannot be recommended in these patient groups, but serious adverse outcomes were not observed. When antiarrhythmic drug therapy is required, amiodarone is the drug of choice for patients with structural heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10980877
Neurohormonal antagonism is now recognized as an essential treatment modality for heart failure. As a prime example, the benefits of blocking the renin-angiotensin system with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are clearly established for all four New York Heart Association classes. In this clinical trials review, we discuss two other therapies with neurohormonal targets: beta-blockers and the sympathetic nervous system, and the aldosterone antagonist spironolactone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10981082
Central regulation of the sympathetic nervous system plays an important role in the maintenance of blood pressure. In a subset of patients with essential hypertension, sympathetic activation may contribute to the development and maintenance of hypertension. Unlike the first generation of centrally active antihypertensive drugs, the second generation may be superior because of its selectivity to I1-imidazoline receptor and selective binding to the vasomotor center. Lack of a2 effects differentiates moxonidine from clonidine with respect to monoxidine"s superior side-effect profile (little or no sedation or dry mouth). Clinical trials show that moxonidine is as effective as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (eg, enalapril and captopril), b-blockers (e.g., atenolol), calcium-channel blockers (e.g., long-acting nifedipine), and diuretics (eg, hydrochlorothiazide) in lowering blood pressure and that it has superior tolerability. Thus, central modulation of the sympathetic nervous system has re-emerged as an exciting target for blood pressure reduction. Given the multiple adverse effects of sympathetic stimulation in various disease processes, including congestive heart failure, moxonidine may be the next therapeutic option for the management of hypertension and the prevention of target organ dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10981092
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10981178
The prevention of coronary heart disease remains one of the greatest challenges for antihypertensive therapy. Previous trials have identified a shortfall in the protection of hypertensive patients against coronary heart disease compared with that predicted from observational studies. The present question is whether newer classes of drugs or drug combinations (calcium channel blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors) can redress the shortfall compared with older agents (diuretics, beta-blockers). However, to answer this question only two trials (Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial [ALLHAT] and Anglo Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial [ASCOT]) are of sufficient size to be adequately powered to address this issue. ALLHAT and ASCOT have completed randomization of patients and will report on morbidity and mortality within 3 to 4 years.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10983362
To reduce frequency and severity of the attacks, migraine was treated preventively between the attacks. The most effective drugs were beta-blockers and antidepressants. In a single-blind study we estimated comparative efficiency of amitriptiline (inhibitor of noradrenaline and serotonin reuptake and 5-HT2-receptor antagonist) 12.5-25 mg/daily, fluoxetine (a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) 10-20 mg/daily, and maprotiline (a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor) 10-25 mg/daily. The duration of the therapy of migraine between the attacks was 12 weeks. Each group included 20 patients. 46 patients completed the whole course of therapy: 14 patients received amitriptyline, 16 patients--fluoxetine, and 16 patients--maprotiline. Positive results of the treatment (a reduction of the frequency of the migraine attacks during a treatment by 50% as compared with the baseline period) were observed in 71% of the patients treated with amitriptyline, in 56% of the patients treated with fluoxetine, and in 38% of the patients treated with maprotiline. All the drugs were able to reduce both intensity and duration of a headache. Index of the Quality of Life in the patients with migraine was increased in the groups treated with either amitriptyline or fluoxetine, but not in a group treated with maprotiline. The results obtained agree with the notion about high efficiency of antidepressants given between migraine attacks. Amitriptyline and fluoxetine were more efficient in preventive therapy than maprotiline. These findings suggested indirectly, that the efficiency of antidepressants in treatment of migraine is explained by inhibition of serotonin reuptake and by 5-HT2-receptor antagonism, while influence on the inhibition of noradrenaline reuptake was not so significant.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10987351
The objective of the present study was to evaluate the benefit of beta-blocker therapy for patients with Takayasu arteritis complicated by moderate or severe aortic regurgitation. Clinical and echocardiographic evaluation was performed in 20 Japanese women in a follow-up period of 7.0 +/- 2.0 years. The patients were divided into 2 groups: Group A (n=10) patients who did not receive beta-blockers, and Group B (n=10) patients treated with long-term (5.1 +/- 1.6 years) therapeutic doses of beta-blockers. Left ventricular wall thickness increased significantly in all Takayasu patients who did not receive beta-blockers. Consequently, a remarkable increment in left ventricular mass took place (232 +/- 59 to 361 +/- 79 g; p < 0.005). In the same group, progressive worsening of the symptoms, with no reduction in the percent fractional shortening, was observed in 2 patients, while reduction of this last index was present in 1 asymptomatic patient. On the other hand, among the patients who were treated with beta-blockers, left ventricular mass still increased in 6 cases, while it clearly decreased in the other 4 cases (290 +/- 171 to 284 +/- 61 g; NS). The increment in wall thickness or left ventricular mass observed among patients with beta-blocker therapy was clearly less than the one registered among those who had not received beta-blockers. Furthermore, no worsening of the symptoms and/or left ventricular performance was observed during the follow-up period for patients receiving beta-blockers. We conclude that beta-blocker therapy can slow and even reverse the progression of left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with Takayasu arteritis complicated by moderate or severe aortic regurgitation. The mechanism still needs to be elucidated. We believe an effective reduction in the excessive afterload imposed on the left ventricle to be most likely responsible, but cardiac beta-receptor up-regulation might also be involved. Deterioration of the clinical status and/or impairment of left ventricular function were not associated with beta-blocker therapy in our patients. Therefore, these agents can be used safely alone or in addition to standard anti-hypertensive therapy when attempting to reduce excessive afterload, in spite of the presence of severe aortic regurgitation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10987353
Heart transplantation (HT) provides longer survival than that of the natural history in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). However, the optimal timing for cardiac transplantation and predictors of mortality in patients with end-stage cardiomyopathy (ESCM) has been poorly defined. The primary purpose of this study focused on the natural history of ambulatory patients with ESCM for HT assessment. Secondly, we tried to determine prognostic factors of individuals with the poorest short-term outcome and the optimal timing for HT in patients with ESCM. Finally, clinical treatment with angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), carvedilol and amiodarone in the prevention of mortality caused by ESCM, were retrospectively evaluated. The short-term outcomes of 119 referral patients with ESCM for four years were observed. The patients had New York Heart Association class III to IV dyspnea at initial assessment for HT. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 17 +/- 6% and cardiac index (CI) was 2.0 +/- 0.6l/min/m2. After optimization of medical treatment, the patients were divided into two major groups according to CI equal to or less than 2.0l/min/m2 and more than 2.0l/min/m2. HTs were accepted in 88 patients and the patients were divided into two groups: medical treatment (group 1, 56 patients) or HT (group 3, 32 patients); HT was not accepted in the other 31 patients (group 2). We studied the probability of the survival curve and prognostic variables of the groups with medical treatment in the follow-up of 12 +/- 9 months. During follow-up, 49 patients were alive without HT. The remaining 38 patients died; 27 patients were in group 1 and 11 patients were in group 2. Eight deaths in group 2 were sudden. The actuarial survival rate among the non-HT population was 73%, 68%, 63 %, and 56 % at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months, respectively. The actuarial survival rate among group 1 was 70 %, 59 %, 55 %, and 52 % at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months, respectively. The actuarial survival rate among group 2 was 87 %, 85 %, 77 %, and 65 % at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months, respectively. A comparison, excluding patients with HT, was performed with those who had survived < 1 year and > or 1 year after assessment, and those who had died. Two parameters were independent predictors of prognosis on univariate and multivariate analysis: total pulmonary vascular resistance (TPR) > or = 14 Wood units (W) and CI < 1.65 l/min/m2 at 6 and 12 months after assessment. Treatment with amiodarone for ventricular tachycardia (VT) showed no convincing role in the prevention of sudden death in our patients. Also, treatment with ACEIs or carvedilol for heart failure was unconvincing to improve the short-term outcome in this study. Our results suggest in properly selected patients that HT should be considered within six months among patients with severe heart failure. Hemodynamic parameters associated with right cardiac function are important determinants of mortality caused by progressive heart failure. Predictors such as CI and TPR may be considered as important markers of mortality in prediction of short-term outcome in patients with ESCM, as other predictors reported in the literature.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10989729
Local Pulse Pressure (PP) is an independent determinant of carotid artery wall thickness, stronger than mean BP. The present study was designed to assess whether a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist or an ACE inhibitor-based treatment was able to reduce carotid artery wall hypertrophy through the reduction in carotid PP rather than by lowering mean BP, and whether the influence of local PP reduction could also be detected at the site of a muscular artery, the radial artery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10993002
The economic burden of congestive heart failure is significant. Approximately 1 to 2% of total health care expenditure is attributed to the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of congestive heart failure. A great share of this expenditure is related to the costs of long-term complications and productivity losses. In order to manage these costs, providers and policymakers increasingly have to focus on economically attractive interventions. Pharmacoeconomic analyses aid the systematic selection of cost-effective drug therapy in congestive heart failure in an era of increasing cost-containment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10993003
Ischemic heart disease is the most frequent cause of death in industrialized countries. This is a result of persistent risk factors and aging of the population. Medical progress with application of conservative, surgical or interventional strategies indeed reduced the morbidity and mortality of arteriosclerotic diseases, but markedly increased the medical care costs. The result is a discussion about the optimal use of the different therapeutic measures under consideration of the evidence based medicine. This article reviews several recently published clinical trials and discusses, which patient with symptomatic coronary artery disease should undergo a conservative strategy, percutaneous or surgical revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10995404
To determine whether the beta blocker esmolol reduces coronary artery wall stress more than the short acting dihydropyridine calcium antagonist nicardipine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10997755
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11004045
We compared the efficacy of the combination of enalaprilat/labetalol with that of enalaprilat/nicardipine to prevent emergence postcraniotomy hypertension. A prospective, randomized open labeled clinical trial was designed to compare the incidence of breakthrough hypertension (systolic blood pressure [SBP] > 140 mm Hg) and adverse effects (hypotension, tachycardia, and bradycardia) between the two drug combinations. Secondarily, the effects of the drugs on SBP, mean blood pressure, and diastolic blood pressure were evaluated over the course of the study. Forty-two patients received enalaprilat 1.25 mg IV at dural closure followed by either multidose nicardipine 2 mg IV or labetalol 5 mg IV to maintain the SBP below 140 mm Hg. SBP was similarly controlled in both groups. There was a marginally smaller incidence of failures and adverse effects with labetalol. Blood pressure profiles were similar for both groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11009288
Based on epidemiologic facts on elevated cardiovascular mortality in renal allograft recipients, an echocardiographic 2-year follow-up in hypertensive renal allograft recipients was conducted. This study provides evidence that, in contrast to atenolol, quinapril, independent of blood pressure reduction, reduces left ventricular hypertrophy and improves left ventricular diastolic function in this population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11014332
Recently, serious concerns have been expressed about the long-term safety of the calcium channel blockers (CCBs) as a group. Safety and efficacy are, however, ultimately linked to each other; therefore both must be evaluated especially in the therapy of angina and hypertension, the main clinical indications for CCBs. The structural, functional, and pharmacokinetic heterogeneity of CCBs means that the efficacy and dangers of one subclass, such as the short-acting dihydropyridines (DHPs), in one situation, such as unstable angina, do not necessarily apply in other clinical situations. One hundred studies are reviewed according to their methods of data collection: case series, case control, cohort, randomized controlled trials (RCTs), and meta-analyses. Large, well-designed RCTs and the meta-analyses based on these trials remain the gold standard. Observational studies, though potentially less reliable sources of information because of selection bias, may nevertheless produce hypotheses that must then be tested in RCTs. Regarding safety, both observational studies and RCTs suggest that adverse effects of CCBs may be linked to short-acting agents, specifically short-acting nifedipine. Two good studies favor the safety of verapamil, even in short-acting form. Incomplete but increasing overall evidence favors the safety of longer-acting DHPs. Heart failure remains a class contraindication to the use of all CCBs, with some exceptions. Regarding efficacy, there are positive results of RCTs with CCBs in 2 specific clinical situations, namely, verapamil in postinfarct protection in the absence of pre-existing heart failure, and 2 outcome studies on hypertension with longer acting DHPs. These results cannot automatically be applied to other clinical situations and to other CCBs. For example, there is no evidence for the safety or efficacy of DHPs used without beta blockers in postinfarct patients. In diabetic hypertensives, 2 relatively large RCTs show that the blood pressure can be reduced by DHP-based therapy in diabetics, with a reduction in hard end points. To achieve current blood pressure goals, combination therapy is almost always necessary, and in diabetics there is strong evidence that 1 essential component should be an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. The future aim with CCBs must be to obtain a large database gathered from RCTs, which will give the same certainty about efficacy and safety that already holds for use of the diuretics in hypertension, beta-blockers in postmyocardial infarction patients, and the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11022900
This prospective multicenter study included 1,205 patients, who were referred for difficult-to-treat hypertension or analysis of possible secondary hypertension. After a standardized selection protocol based on sharply defined drug-resistant hypertension or renal function impairment during angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition, patients underwent renal scintigraphy and a captopril-renin challenge test. A set of clinical characteristics was also recorded. Sensitivity and specificity of renal scintigraphy for diagnosing renal artery stenosis were 0.72 and 0.90 and of the captopril-renin test 0.77 to 0.91 and 0.69 to 0.75 depending on the criterion used. The clinical characteristics were used to construct a clinical prediction rule for renal artery stenosis, which had a sensitivity of 0.68 and a specificity of 0.87 at a cut-off level of 30% predicted probability. However, with the prediction rule a sensitivity of 0.90 could be reached by performing arteriography only in patients with a predicted probability of stenosis of > or =10%, resulting in a considerable reduction of the number of arteriograms to be made. A diagnostic strategy is advocated starting with drug-resistant hypertension and continuing to renal arteriography only in patients with increased probability of stenosis. Patients with atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis were then randomized to balloon angioplasty (n = 56) versus antihypertensive medication (n = 50). Three months after randomization 22 patients from the medication group underwent balloon angioplasty in second instance. In an intention-to-treat analysis, no difference in blood pressure was found between the groups after 3 months, nor after 12 months of follow-up, although there was a small medication-sparing effect of balloon angioplasty. The lack of a beneficial effect of balloon angioplasty compared with medication could not be attributed to the high stenosis recurrence rate after angioplasty, nor to the fact that the inclusion criterion was set at a stenosis level of > or =50% so that patients with relatively mild stenosis were also included. Renal function after angioplasty was slightly better in the angioplasty group than in the medication group, and improvement of the renal scintigram occurred more often after angioplasty. Apart from the treatment of patients with specific characteristics, the presented therapeutic approach starts with extending the antihypertensive drug therapy to control blood pressure. Only if blood pressure cannot be controlled or if renal function deteriorates, balloon angioplasty (with stent placement) is indicated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11023935
Glucose and insulin levels are associated with left ventricular mass (LVM) in insulin-resistant individuals. Antihypertensive drugs have different effects on glucose and insulin metabolism (GIM) and on LVM. To evaluate whether the effects of antihypertensive therapy on LVM are associated with its effects on GIM, we compared the effects of atenolol and perindopril on these parameters in a group of insulin-resistant, obese hypertensives.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11025624
Role of propranolol and cyproheptadine in the prophylaxis of migraine was studied in a controlled double blind trial. Two hundred fifty-nine patients were divided into four groups. Each group was either given a placebo, cyproheptadine, propranolol or a combination of the latter two drugs. The patients were followed for a period of three months. Significant relief in frequency, duration and severity from migranous attacks was seen in all drug treated groups over placebo. Significant correlation in response was seen in frequency, duration and severity in all the groups which received drugs. Statistically more significant relief was seen in cyproheptadine and propranolol treated group as compared to individual drug treated groups. In cyproheptadine and propranolol treated groups, the dropout rate was lower and associated symptoms were better relieved than in other groups. The study shows efficacy of combination of cyproheptadine and propranolol in migraine prophylaxis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11039742
To compare the clinical effectiveness and the impact on quality of life of twice-daily brimonidine 0.2% with those of twice-daily betaxolol 0.25% in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11041675
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11045137
Chronic heart failure is an increasing cause of hospital admission in the Netherlands and Belgium. Despite numerous medical treatment modalities, the mortality remains high. Recent placebo-controlled randomized studies suggest that the addition of beta-blockers in stabilized, optimally pretreated patients with chronic heart failure using angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, diuretics and digitalis, is accompanied by an additional absolute decrease in mortality by about 5% and a relative decrease in mortality by about 35%. Also the number hospitalization frequency decreases. Initially, the beneficial effects of beta-blockers on symptoms are only minor or absent. During the initiation period some clinical deterioration may occur which has to be treated accordingly; these patients are, however, difficult to identify. Initiation has to be done using low doses and should be restricted to stabilized, optimally treated patients. Doses should only be increased every 2 to 4 weeks until target doses are reached. These findings must not be extrapolated automatically to all cases of heart failure, since patients in the trials may differ considerably from those encountered in general practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11045900
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11053724
We retrospectively performed stepwise logistic regression analysis on 1,509 patients with chronic heart failure in 4 multicenter United States studies and 1 Australia-New Zealand study to examine the effect of digoxin in patients randomized to carvedilol or placebo. Patients receiving digoxin had more advanced heart failure, the incidence of hospitalization for any cause and the combination of all-cause death and all-cause hospitalization were the same in the digoxin versus no-digoxin groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11054501
Knowledge of the pathogenesis of congestive heart failure (CHF) has improved greatly in recent years. However, this disease continues to cause one of the highest morbidities and mortalities in the Western world. The pathophysiology of heart failure is complex and much of our understanding revolves strictly around the neurohormonal mechanisms involved. Various pharmacologic interventions have significantly improved morbidity and include ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, diuretics, and inotropic agents. Yet, no consensus has been reached regarding the use of anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents. It has been suggested that CHF is associated with altered hemostasis, but whether this prothrombotic state contributes to the pathogenesis and progression of the disease is unknown. The purpose of this review article is to discuss our current knowledge of platelet activation, thrombin generation, fibrinolysis, and endothelial dysfunction in CHF patients, and the potential role of anticoagulants and/or antiplatelet agents in preventing these hemostatic abnormalities.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11054621
Flow-mediated, endothelium-dependent dilatation (FMD) of the coronary and peripheral circulation is impaired by increased oxidative stress in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Carvedilol is a novel beta-blocker that also shows an antioxidant effect in vitro. However, the effect of carvedilol on endothelial dysfunction associated with established coronary atherosclerosis has not been examined in the clinical setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11055467
The second Swedish Trial in Old patients with Hypertension (STOP-Hypertension-2) was conducted to compare the effects of "newer" antihypertensive therapies (angiotensin converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors and calcium antagonists) and established therapies (beta-blockers and diuretics) on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in elderly hypertensive patients. A total of 6614 patients were randomized to receive conventional treatment, ACE inhibitors or calcium antagonists, and followed for a mean of 5 years. The primary endpoint was a combination of fatal stroke, fatal myocardial infarction and other fatal cardiovascular disease; secondary endpoints were a combination of fatal or non-fatal stroke or myocardial infarction, and other cardiovascular mortality. The three treatments produced similar reductions in supine systolic blood pressure. There were no significant differences in the risk of cardiovascular events between patients receiving conventional therapy and those receiving newer therapies. All three treatments were well tolerated. The STOP-Hypertension-2 results thus add to the extensive literature showing the benefits of blood pressure reduction in elderly hypertensive patients. Moreover, they are consistent with current management guidelines which emphasise the importance of the achieved blood pressure reduction in the prevention of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11055468
The 1999 hypertension management guidelines issued by the World Health Organization and the International Society of Hypertension emphasize the importance of blood pressure reduction in the prevention of cardiovascular events. Furthermore, they conclude that the benefits of treatment are due to blood pressure lowering per se, rather than to any specific antihypertensive therapy. The results of the second Swedish Trial in Old Patients with Hypertension (STOP-Hypertension-2) are consistent with these recommendations, since in this trial angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and calcium antagonists reduced blood pressure to the same extent as conventional therapy with beta-blockers and diuretics in elderly hypertensive patients, and the three treatments produced similar reductions in the risk of cardiovascular events. Furthermore, a first subgroup analysis of cardiovascular mortality showed that the three treatments seemed equally effective in diabetic patients. The STOP-Hypertension-2 data, therefore, are fully consistent with the 1999 hypertension management guidelines, and underline the advantages offered by both older and newer antihypertensive therapies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11056773
Emergence from general anaesthesia and extubation are often accompanied by significant surges in heart rate and blood pressure. To document these changes and the efficacy of low-dose beta-blocker infusions in ameliorating these rises, we undertook a descriptive dose-ranging study comparing the use of esmolol to placebo in patients emerging from neuro-anaesthesia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11057841
Although beta-adrenergic blockers can significantly reduce mortality after a myocardial infarction, these agents are prescribed to only a minority of patients. Underutilization of beta blockers may be attributed, in part, to fear of adverse effects, especially in the elderly and in patients with concomitant disorders such as diabetes or heart failure. However, studies have shown that such patients are precisely the ones who derive the greatest benefit from beta blockade. Advancing age or the presence of potentially complicating disease states is usually not a justification for withholding beta-blocker therapy. With use of cardioselective agents and through careful dosing and monitoring, the benefits of beta blockers after myocardial infarction far outweigh the potential risks in most patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11058925
To evaluate the behavior of blood pressure during exercise in patients with hypertension controlled by frontline antihypertension drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11059637
Heart failure remains a major and increasing cause of mortality and morbidity, even when the best available treatments are used. One of its key causes is neuroendocrine activation via the sympathetic nervous system and the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Neuroendocrine blockers of the sympathetic nervous system (beta-blockers) and of the RAS (angiotensin-converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors and angiotensin II type 1 [AT1] receptor blockers) therefore have an important potential therapeutic role in heart failure. The promising results from clinical trials with beta-blockers suggest that these drugs will become an established part of the future management of patients with mild to moderate symptomatic heart failure. Blockade of the RAS with ACE inhibitors has also been shown to be effective in reducing the risk of morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure. Blockade of the AT1-receptor, with agents such as candesartan, produces more specific and, theoretically, more complete blockade of the major negative cardiovascular effects of angiotensin II than is possible using ACE inhibitors, whilst maintaining placebo-like tolerability. Furthermore, AT1-receptor blockade leads to increased stimulation of the angiotensin II type 2 (AT2) receptor, which, according to experimental data, may have favourable cardiovascular effects. Following encouraging results from two pilot studies, a major new international study programme - CHARM (Candesartan in Heart failure - Assessment of Reduction in Mortality and morbidity) - has been initiated to define the clinical benefits of candesartan cilexetil in a wide variety of patients with symptomatic heart failure. CHARM is the first study to accept all relevant heart failure patients who may benefit from RAS blockade, irrespective of their left ventricular function or tolerance of ACE inhibitors. The 6500 patients to be recruited will be divided among three integrated outcome studies. Two of these studies will examine the effect of candesartan cilexetil versus placebo in patients with an ejection fraction of 40% or less who are tolerant or intolerant of ACE inhibitors. The third study arm will examine the benefits of candesartan cilexetil in a previously seldom studied group: those with symptomatic heart failure, but with preserved left-ventricular systolic function. Recruitment of patients into the study has started.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11059968
The prognosis of women with congestive heart failure (CHF) is better than that for men, but the mechanisms underlying the female survival advantage are not well understood. CHF is characterized by profound abnormalities in cardiac autonomic control that contribute to progressive circulatory failure and influence survival.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11060685
beta-Blockers have emerged as an important therapy in patients with symptomatic left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Early studies demonstrated that beta-blocker therapy improved left ventricular function, reduced neurohumoral activity and reduced heart failure symptoms in these patients. While none of these small studies demonstrated a significant benefit in terms of overall survival, several meta-analyses suggested that beta-blocker therapy could, in fact, reduce mortality in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction and mild to moderate heart failure symptoms (New York Heart Association class II or III). Three large, recently completed, trials have confirmed the benefit of beta-blockade in these patients. This report reviews some of the initial clinical studies of beta-blockade in heart failure, examines the findings of the three large multicentre trials and other relevant research. Finally, ongoing trials designed to assess the relative efficacy of different beta-blockers and evaluate the utility of beta-blockade in specific subsets of patients with heart failure are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11061055
The basic cause of angina pectoris is imbalance between the metabolic needs of the myocardium and the capacity of the coronary circulation to deliver sufficient oxygenated blood to satisfy these needs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11069435
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11070565
In hypertension both beta-blockers and calcium antagonists are drugs with proved efficacy. Because only half the patients respond to a single drug, even at full dosage, a second hypotensive agent is frequently required to obtain adequate blood pressure control. The combination of a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist and a beta-blocker can be justified by their different mechanisms of action. A randomised double blind parallel group study versus placebo was performed, in order to assess the efficacy of atenolol combined with amlodipine in the treatment of stage I-II essential hypertension not controlled by atenolol alone. Twenty-four-hour arterial blood pressure monitoring showed that amlodipine added to atenolol produced a statistically significant reduction of blood pressure values compared with placebo in patients whose blood pressure was not controlled by atenolol alone. Blood pressure circadian rhythm was unchanged. The reduction of side-effects, obtained by adding a dihydropyridine derivate to a beta-blocker, confirms the effectiveness of this combination.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11071026
To compare the efficacy and safety of latanoprost monotherapy or dorzolamide and timolol in glaucoma patients inadequately controlled on adrenergic beta-receptor antagonist therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11076821
Previous studies have suggested that women with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) are less aggressively managed than are men. The aim of this study was to assess sex differences in medical and invasive coronary procedures (angiography, PTCA, and CABG) in AMI patients admitted to cardiac care units (CCUs) in Israel in the mid 1990s and their association with early and 1-year prognosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11078300
The 10-year results of randomized trials comparing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in patients with single-vessel coronary artery disease (CAD) with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and medical treatment are not available yet. The aim of this evaluation was to compare our 10-year follow-up results after PTCA in patients with single-vessel CAD with the 10-year follow-up results after CABG and medical treatment in the Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) trial. We evaluated the clinical outcome of 509 patients with single-vessel CAD 10 years after coronary angioplasty. The data were compared with the results of 214 patients with single-vessel CAD after CABG or medical treatment from the CASS trial. End points were defined as death and myocardial infarction. Statistical evaluation was performed by life-table analysis and 2-sided Fisher's exact test. The rate of survival was 86% 10 years after PTCA compared with 85% after CABG and 82% after medical treatment in patients from the CASS trial (p = NS). Survival free from myocardial infarction was 77% after coronary angioplasty, 70% after CABG, and 72% after medical treatment (p = NS). Thus, in patients with single-vessel CAD, infarct-free survival 10 years after coronary angioplasty compared favorably with the results after bypass surgery or medical treatment from the CASS trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11079666
The purpose of this study was to investigate in a case-controlled study whether carvedilol increased baroreflex sensitivity and heart rate variability (HRV).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11081782
The benefits of treating hypertension in elderly diabetic patients, in terms of achieving reductions in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, have been documented in several recent prospective trials. There has, however, been some controversy regarding the effect of different antihypertensive drugs on the frequency of myocardial infarction in this group of patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11082141
The Losartan Intervention For Endpoint (LIFE) reduction in hypertension study is a double-blind, prospective, parallel group study designed to compare the effects of losartan with those of atenolol on the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. A total of 9194 patients with hypertension and ECG left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) by Cornell voltage-duration product and/or Sokolow-Lyon voltage criteria were enrolled in the study, with baseline clinical and ECG data available in 8785 patients (54% women; mean age, 67+/-7 years). ECG LVH by Cornell voltage-duration product criteria was present in 5791 patients (65.9%) and by Sokolow-Lyon voltage in 2025 patients (23.1%). Compared with patients without ECG LVH by Cornell voltage-duration product criteria, patients with ECG LVH by this method were older; more obese; more likely to be female, white, and to have never smoked; more likely to be diabetic and have angina; and had slightly higher systolic, diastolic, and pulse blood pressures. In contrast, patients with ECG LVH by Sokolow-Lyon criteria were slightly younger; less obese; more likely to be male, black, and current smokers; less likely to have diabetes; more likely to have angina and a history of cerebrovascular disease; and had higher systolic and pulse blood pressure but slightly lower diastolic blood pressure than patients without ECG LVH by this method. By use of multivariate logistic regression analyses, presence of ECG LVH by Cornell voltage-duration product criteria was predominantly associated with higher body mass index, increased age, and female gender, whereas presence of ECG LVH by Sokolow-Lyon voltage criteria was predominantly related to lower body mass index, male gender, and black race. Thus, hypertensive patients who meet Cornell product and Sokolow-Lyon voltage criteria are associated with different, but potentially equally adverse, risk factor profiles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11082143
Little is known about the patterns of treatment and adequacy of blood pressure control in older women. The Women's Health Initiative, a 40-center national study of risk factors and prevention of heart disease, breast and colorectal cancer, and osteoporosis in postmenopausal women, provides a unique opportunity to examine these issues in the largest, multiethnic, best-characterized such cohort. Baseline data from the initial 98 705 women, aged 50 to 79 years, enrolled were analyzed to relate prevalence, treatment, and control of hypertension to demographic, clinical, and risk-factor covariates, and logistic regression analyses were performed to estimate odds ratios after adjusting for multiple potential confounders. Overall, 37.8% of the women had hypertension, which is defined as systolic blood pressure >/=140 mm Hg and/or diastolic blood pressure >/=90 mm Hg or being on medication for high blood pressure; 64.3% were treated with drugs, and blood pressure was controlled in only 36.1% of the hypertensive women, with lower rates of control in the oldest group. After adjustment for multiple covariates, current hormone users had higher prevalence than did nonusers (odds ratio 1.25). Hypertensive women had more comorbid conditions than did nonhypertensive women, and women with comorbidities were more likely to be treated pharmacologically. Diuretics were used by 44.3% of hypertensives either as monotherapy or in combination with other drug classes. As monotherapy, calcium channel blockers were used in 16%, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in 14%, beta-blockers in 9%, and diuretics in 14% of the hypertensive women. Diuretics as monotherapy were associated with better blood pressure control than any of the other drug classes as monotherapy. In conclusion, hypertension in older women is not being treated aggressively enough because a large proportion, especially those most at risk for stroke and heart disease by virtue of age, does not have sufficient blood pressure control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11083735
Contraction of longitudinal and subendocardial myocardial muscle fibres is reflected in descent of the atrioventricular (AV) plane. The aim was therefore to determine whether beta blocker treatment with prolongation of diastole might result in improved function as reflected by AV plane movements in patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11083738
To determine baseline predictors of tolerance to the alpha/beta blocker carvedilol in everyday clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11085197
Congestive heart failure is a multiple aetiology, high prevalence, poor prognosis cardiovascular disorder. Medical treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy is aimed at alleviating the symptoms of heart failure. Diuretics, ACE inhibitors and very recently, beta-blockers have been shown to have favourable effects on symptoms, exercise capacity and mortality. Growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 are involved in several physiological processes such as the control of muscle mass and function, body composition and regulation of nutrient metabolism. The roles of GH and IGF-1 as modulators of myocardial structure and function are well established. Receptors for both GH and IGF-1 are expressed by cardiac myocytes; therefore, GH may act directly on the heart or via the induction of local or systemic IGF-1, whereas IGF-1 may act by endocrine, paracrine or autocrine mechanisms. Patients with acromegaly have an increased propensity to develop ventricular hypertrophy and cardiovascular diseases and, in addition, an impaired cardiac efficiency is observed in patients with GH deficiency. Animal models of pressure and volume overload have demonstrated up-regulation of cardiac IGF-1 production and expression of GH and IGF-1 receptors, implying that the local regulation of these factors is influenced by haemodynamic changes. Moreover, experimental studies suggest that GH and IGF-1 have stimulatory effects on myocardial contractility, possibly mediated by changes in intracellular calcium handling. Heart failure is caused by ventricular dilatation with abnormal wall thickening, which leads to impaired cardiac performance; therefore, based on the evidence available for GH we would expect beneficial effects from the use of GH in these patients. Several papers highlight the positive influence of GH in the regulation of heart development and performance. In patients with GH deficiency, GH administration dramatically improves cardiac function. In small nonblind studies, both short and long term GH treatment have demonstrated beneficial effects in patients with heart failure secondary to ischaemic or idiophatic cardiomyopathy. Recently, two randomised, placebo-controlled studies, did not show significant GH-mediated improvement in cardiac performance in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, despite significant increases in IGF-1. Acquired GH resistance, might be an important feature of severe heart failure and explain the different responses to GH therapy seen in different patients. Whether GH treatment will finally find a place, and with which modalities, in the treatment of heart failure remains to be established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11085202
Nicorandil is a drug with both nitrate-like and ATP-sensitive potassium-channel (K+ ATP) activating properties. By virtue of this dual mechanism of action, the drug acts as a balanced coronary and peripheral vasodilator and reduces both preload and afterload. The K+ ATP channel has been shown to be involved in the phenomenon of myocardial preconditioning, and studies in animal models of ischaemia-reperfusion-induced myocardial stunning or infarction indicate that nicorandil has cardio-protective effects. Studies in patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) have shown that the administration of nicorandil reduces ST-segment elevation during ischaemia. Nicorandil significantly improved the results of exercise tolerance tests versus baseline in patients with stable effort angina pectoris in early noncomparative trials. The drug also improved the results of exercise tolerance tests relative to placebo in early randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. In randomised, double-blind comparative studies in patients with angina pectoris, nicorandil has demonstrated equivalent efficacy, as measured by exercise tolerance testing, to isosorbide di- and mononitrate, metoprolol, propranolol, atenolol, diltiazem, amlodipine and nifedipine. The effects of nicorandil on various aspects of myocardial recovery from ischaemic damage caused by acute myocardial infarction have been investigated in the short term. Regional left ventricular (LV) wall motion, a marker of myocardial function, was significantly improved in nicorandil recipients relative to control. The main adverse event associated with nicorandil as treatment for angina pectoris is headache. This can be minimised by commencing nicorandil at a low dose in patients prone to headache. There have been infrequent case reports of mouth ulcers in patients receiving nicorandil; causality has not been conclusively established, but product prescribing information indicates that an alternative treatment should be considered if persistent aphthous or severe mouth ulceration occurs. Thus, nicorandil remains a useful background therapy for patients with angina pectoris. The drug has also demonstrated potential cardioprotective effects when used as part of an intervention strategy directly after acute myocardial infarction in high-risk patients. Further large scale longer term studies of nicorandil in this latter indication are awaited with interest.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11086468
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11089713
Throughout the 1990s, the Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure recommended initial antihypertensive therapy with a thiazide diuretic or a beta-blocker based on evidence from randomized, controlled trials, unless an indication existed for another drug class. The committee also recommended beta-blockers in hypertensive patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI), and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). Our objective was to determine whether prescribing practices for older hypertensive patients are consistent with evidence-based guidelines.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11092108
Beta-blockers and calcium antagonists are both effective monotherapy for stable angina. When symptoms persist, these two agents are commonly co-prescribed in the hope that this combination has added benefit compared with monotherapy alone. We investigated the additional efficacy of the calcium antagonists amlodipine and nifedipine when added to bisoprolol in patients with stable angina. Patients were randomised in a multicentre, single-blind study, with crossover of three treatments consisting of bisoprolol 10 mg once daily, bisoprolol plus nifedipine 20 mg twice daily, and bisoprolol plus amlodipine 5 mg once daily. Exercise tests were performed at the end of each four-week study period and the exercise time to onset of angina was assessed. A total of 198 patients from 17 centres were recruited of whom 147 were evaluable for efficacy. There were no statistically significant differences in exercise duration to onset of angina between any of the groups. The combination of bisoprolol plus nifedipine was least well tolerated. In summary, this study suggests there is little benefit in adding a calcium antagonist to bisoprolol in treating patients with stable angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11093573
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11094241
To conduct a systematic review of evidence relating to management of mild chronic hypertension during pregnancy, including associated risks, benefits, and harms of treatment with antihypertensive agents, nonpharmacologic measures, and aspirin and benefits of various monitoring strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11095154
Ischaemic and degenerative brain diseases are a major health problem leading to a devastating loss of autonomy. Hypertension has been shown to carry an increased risk not only for cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality but also for cognitive impairment and dementia. Although diastolic blood pressure is considered an important risk factor, it is now clear that isolated systolic hypertension and elevated pulse pressure also play an important role in the development of brain complications. Therefore the treatment of these conditions must urgently become a widespread tool of prevention. All the randomised placebo-controlled trials completed for the last 30 years have shown a reduction in fatal and/or non-fatal strokes. In the most recent trials in isolated systolic hypertension in older patients, the benefit was even greater because of the higher risk in these populations. The new classes of drugs, in particular, calcium-channels blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, have been shown to be as effective as the originally used diuretics and beta-blockers. Active treatment in the Syst-Eur trial based on nitrendipine as first step, possibly associated with enalapril and/or hydrochlorthiazide reduced not only stroke and cardiovascular complications but also the incidence of dementia including Alzheimer's disease. This important finding must be confirmed by further trials specifically focusing on the prevention of dementia. In addition, the importance of pulse pressure as a risk factor, underlines the need for new drugs which could increase aortic distensibility and decrease systolic blood pressure without greatly reducing diastolic pressure. Improving the management of hypertension offers new opportunities to reduce age-related disease in older people and to promote healthy aging.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11099990
Atrial fibrillation remains a frequent complication after heart surgery. The optimal strategy to treat the condition has not been established. Several retrospective studies have suggested that a primary rate-control strategy may be equivalent to a strategy that restores sinus rhythm.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11103666
Blood pressure and proteinuria are important determinants of progressive renal failure in patients with renal diseases. In a 53-year-old man with hypertension and nephrotic-range proteinuria, lowering the blood pressure to a value of 125/75 mmHg resulted in a disappearance of the proteinuria. Recent literature data indicate that the treatment of blood pressure in patients with proteinuria, with emphasis on the benefits of reaching a blood pressure target of 125/75 mmHg and the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, may lead to a serious improvement in their prognosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11104878
To evaluate the therapeutical effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor Captopril to the beta-blocker Propranolol in infants with congestive failure due to pulmonary overcirculation, we retrospectively analysed clinical, neurohormonal and hemodynamic data in 22 infants, 11 of whom were treated with Captopril (Group 1), 11 with Propranolol (Group 2). Age, weight, number of palliative operations, plasma renin activities and pulmonary to systemic flow ratios (3.5 vs. 3.5) were not significantly different prior to Captopril or Propranolol therapy. If treatment with digoxin and diuretics did not succeed, the infants were additionally treated with Captopril (1 mg/kg) for a mean of 7.4 months, or with 1.9 mg/kg Propranolol for 9.2 months.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11113718
The survival benefit of beta-blocker treatment in patients with heart failure has been established in recent trials. Yet, the impact of beta-blockers added on high dose angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors has not been reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11113722
The Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) is the first large-scale randomized, multinational clinical study to assess the efficacy and safety of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, added to conventional therapy, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, in heart failure patients. A total of 5010 patients with an ejection fraction <40% have been randomized to either valsartan titrated to 160 mg b.i.d. or to placebo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11113724
Important new studies relevant to the field of heart failure reported at the annual congress of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC), held in Amsterdam in August 2000, are reviewed. The IMPROVEMENT of Heart Failure survey investigated the knowledge and perceptions of over 1300 primary care physicians from 14 ESC member nations and the actual practice in over 11000 of their patients. Guidelines and clinical practice were compared. The survey suggested, in this large sample, that the quality of care was higher than previous smaller surveys have suggested but have also identified important deficiencies in knowledge and management that should be rectified. The COPERNICUS study demonstrated that carvedilol was remarkably well tolerated even in patients with very severe heart failure and that treatment was associated with a substantial reduction in mortality even among patients that would conventionally not be considered, by many, for beta-blocker therapy. The MUSTIC trial suggested that cardiac resynchronisation using biventricular pacing improved patients symptomatically whether or not the patient was in atrial fibrillation. Morbidity and mortality studies of cardiac resynchronisation are now underway. The ASPECT-II and APRICOT-II studies investigated the role of warfarin, aspirin and their combination for the long-term management of myocardial infarction. One interpretation of the data from these studies is that the combination of aspirin and warfarin is about as effective as warfarin alone but with a much higher incidence of side effects. Warfarin alone appeared superior to aspirin alone. In summary, the annual congress of the ESC provided important new information for clinical practice and, to date, was, by far, the most important cardiology congress in the world this year.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11115082
It has been postulated that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor/angiotensin receptor antagonist (ACEI/ATRA) may decrease proteinuria in patients with glomerulonephritis by its action on the glomerular basement membrane. We therefore studied the relationship between the response of patients with IgA nephritis (IgAN) to ACEI/ATRA therapy by decreasing proteinuria and its effect on the selectivity index (SI) in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11116286
Decreasing heart rate is potentially useful in ischaemic heart disease. Tedisamil is a bradycardic agent resulting from its ability to inhibit transient outward current (I(to)) in atria. Tedisamil inhibits I(to), potassium current (IK), K(ATP) and the protein kinase A-activated chloride channel in ventricles as well as vascular IK and Ca(2+)-activated IK (IK((Ca))). Tedisamil prolongs cardiac action potentials and the corrected QT (QTc) of the ECG and also increases cardiac refractoriness. Tedisamil is anti-arrhythmic in animal models of ventricular arrhythmias and atrial flutter. The bradycardic effect of tedisamil is associated with a reduction in myocardial oxygen demand. On isolated rat ventricle, tedisamil is a positive inotrope and on isolated rabbit atria, tedisamil reverses the negative inotropic effect of pinacidil. Tedisamil contracts the isolated rat portal vein and aorta, reduces cromakalim-induced relaxations of contracted rat aorta and increases blood pressure in animals and humans. Tedisamil is 96% bound to plasma proteins, has a plasma half-life of about 10 h and is cleared from the kidney unchanged. Clinical trials have shown that the electrophysiology of tedisamil is that of a class III anti-arrhythmic. In coronary artery disease, tedisamil has no effect on inotropism and increases the threshold for angina. Potassium channel blockade with tedisamil may have advantages over calcium channel blockers or K(ATP) channel openers as an anti-ischaemic mechanism in coronary artery disease. In exercise-induced myocardial ischaemia, beta-blockers are probably favourable to tedisamil, as they will limit the increase in heart rate, contractility and blood pressure caused by sympathetic stimulation, whereas tedisamil will not. In heart failure patients, tedisamil reduces heart rate, but increases blood pressure. The usefulness of tedisamil as a bradycardic agent is limited by the increase in blood pressure. A drug that is bradycardic without increasing blood pressure would be an improvement on tedisamil as the master switch of nature for ischaemic heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11122756
Medical therapy reduces myocardial infarction and death in patients with stable coronary heart disease (CHD). In contrast, there is little evidence available to evaluate the impact of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) on hard endpoints in such patients. Four randomized, controlled trials have compared PCI with medical therapy. These studies have demonstrated that PCI results in an improvement in angina and exercise tolerance compared with medical therapy, but they also suggest that medical therapy may be preferable to PCI with respect to the risk of cardiac events. Interpretation of these studies has been limited by small sample size, exclusion of high-risk subjects, no or reduced use of stents, lack of a cost- effectiveness evaluation, and absence of risk factor intervention (except for Atorvastatin versus Revascularization Treatment, which used aggressive low-density lipoprotein lowering with atorvastatin in the medical group only). The Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive Drug Evaluation (COURAGE) trial will permit better definition of the role of PCI in the treatment of stable or recently stabilized patients with CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11124714
Intravenous antiarrhythmic drugs can be used as diagnostic tools; for example, adenosine can be used to reveal the underlying rhythm in narrow QRS tachycardia. Newer class III antiarrhythmic agents, like ibutilide and dofetilide, are effective at the conversion of acute atrial fibrillation; however, electrical cardioversion is still the most effective method for restoration of sinus rhythm in persistent atrial fibrillation. Lidocaine and bretylium in the treatment and prevention of ventricular tachyarrhythmia are de-emphasized because of inefficacy, safety concerns (lidocaine), or shortage of drug (bretylium). Procainamide is effective for stable ventricular tachycardia, and amiodarone is effective in the treatment of shock-refractory ventricular fibrillation. Adrenergic blockade is likely important in the management of tachyarrhythmias, particularly in electrical storm, but more data will be necessary to establish its role.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11126860
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11127443
The purpose of the study was to investigate the effects of beta1-blockade on left ventricular (LV) size and function for patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11127843
This review discusses the use of antihypertensive drugs in acute and long term treatment of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, including their placental transfer and adverse effects on the fetus. All antihypertensive agents cross the placental barrier and are present in varying concentrations in the fetal circulation, with varying resultant effects on fetal metabolism. Antihypertensive drugs that are lipid soluble will pass through the placental barrier with ease whereas the most polar will not. Placental transfer diminishes under conditions that decrease the surface area or increase the thickness of the placenta. Highly protein-bound drugs form complexes which impair placental transfer while unbound drugs cross the placenta easily. The ionised drug form is highly charged and cannot cross lipid membranes while the un-ionised form can easily cross the placenta. A decrease in placental blood flow can slow down the transfer of lipid soluble drugs to the fetus. Close monitoring of the fetal and maternal condition is necessary for the rest of the pregnancy after antihypertensive therapy is commenced. Methyldopa is the initial drug of choice for long term oral antihypertensive therapy in pregnancy. Neither short term nor long term use of methyldopa is associated with adverse effects. In the short term (<6 weeks) beta-receptor antagonists are effective and well tolerated provided there are no signs of intrauterine growth impairment. ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitors are contraindicated in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy because they are teratogenic. Intravenous dihydralazine is widely used for rapid reductions of severely elevated blood pressure. The use of nifedipine concurrently with MgSO4 must be approached with caution because the combination is associated with severe hypotension, neuromuscular blockade and cardiac depression. In the last decade, knowledge of antihypertensive drugs used in pregnancy has improved and new drugs, e.g. calcium antagonists, which have been shown to have great potential for use in pregnancy, have been introduced. Safety for the fetus with newer drugs has not yet been adequately evaluated. Currently, well established and cost effective drugs such as methyldopa (long term use) and intravenous dihydralazine (rapid reduction) are the agents of choice to treat hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11129677
Utilization and dosage of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) remain low. Recent data suggest that care of patients with CHF in specialized heart failure programs is associated with improved clinical outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11130228
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11130231
Heart failure, the only cardiovascular disease with an increasing incidence, is associated with significant mortality and poses a considerable economic burden. Traditionally, beta blockers have been considered to be contraindicated in patients with heart failure. Recently, however, several large randomized, controlled mortality trials have been stopped early because of significant improvement in mortality rates in patients with heart failure who were given beta blockers in addition to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics and, sometimes, digoxin. Beta blockers should now be considered standard therapy in patients with New York Heart Association class II or class III heart failure who are hemodynamically stable, who do not have dyspnea at rest and who have no other contraindications to the use of these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11130522
Several observational studies and individual randomised trials in hypertension have suggested that, compared with other drugs, calcium antagonists may be associated with a higher risk of coronary events, despite similar blood-pressure control. The aim of this meta-analysis was to compare the effects of calcium antagonists and other antihypertensive drugs on major cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11130523
This programme of overviews of randomised trials was established to investigate the effects of angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, calcium antagonists, and other blood-pressure-lowering drugs on mortality and major cardiovascular morbidity in several populations of patients. We did separate overviews of trials comparing active treatment regimens with placebo, trials comparing more intensive and less intensive blood-pressure-lowering strategies, and trials comparing treatment regimens based on different drug classes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11132612
To assess the acute effect of sildenafil citrate on blood pressure and heart rate in men with erectile dysfunction taking concomitant antihypertensive medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11133211
Ultrasonographic assessments of intima-media thickness and plaques in the carotid artery are widely used as surrogate markers for coronary atherosclerosis, but prospective evaluations are scarce and appear to be lacking in patients with coronary artery disease. Ultrasonographic evaluations of femoral vascular changes have not been studied prospectively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11139094
Understanding of the pathophysiology of heart failure has advanced over the last decade, resulting in new therapeutic advances. Convincing data exist that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition and adrenergic blockade are the most important therapies and have the capacity to improve survival and lower morbidity. Higher doses of both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers appear to provide additional benefits. The aldosterone antagonist spironolactone, when used in severe heart failure, provides additional survival advantage when added to standard triple therapy. Angiotensin receptor blockers have not been shown to be superior to ACE inhibitors, and their role in heart failure treatment requires further investigation. No trial's data support the use of inotropic agents or calcium channel blockers in heart failure. A number of new therapeutic agents, including vasopressin antagonists and tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor antibody are in phase II and III clinical trials. If proved beneficial, they may provide new treatment options for patients with heart failure. Nevertheless, the current challenge is to increase the use of proven therapies, namely ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers, to improve outcomes in the rapidly growing population of patients with congestive heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11144703
To briefly discuss the pathophysiology of heart failure and the rationale for the use of beta-blockers in the treatment of chronic heart failure. Key morbidity reduction trials are briefly mentioned, and recent mortality reduction trials are reviewed. General recommendations regarding the use of beta-blockers in heart failure are also included to guide clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11150619
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11151741
The aims of this study were to study the efficacy and tolerability of felodipine extended release (ER) 5 mg and metoprolol controlled release (CR/ZOC) 50 mg given as a fixed combination (Logimax) or as a free combination in elderly (age greater than 60 years) hypertensive patients, using ambulatory blood pressure (BP) monitoring. A secondary aim was to relate the efficacy of the free and fixed combinations with pharmacokinetic profiles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11152373
Animal and human studies have shown that carvedilol has significant antioxidant properties compared with other beta-blockers. The objective of this study was to determine if these antioxidant effects are detectable in patients with heart failure and to compare carvedilol with the selective beta-blocker metoprolol. Twenty-four patients with chronic heart failure were randomly assigned to receive either carvedilol or metoprolol in a double-blind control trial for 12 weeks in a University teaching hospital clinic. Blood pressure, heart rate, exercise tolerance, left ventricular ejection fraction, plasma total antioxidant status, erythrocyte superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase activities were determined at baseline and every 4 weeks up to 12 weeks. The results showed that erythrocyte superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase were significantly reduced in carvedilol treated patients after 12 weeks of therapy, whereas metoprolol had no significant effect, although the clinical improvement over the short-term was similar with both drugs. Thus carvedilol, in addition to improving symptoms in heart failure, also possesses significant antioxidant properties. Whether this additional action influences long-term outcome is at present unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11157688
Whether female sex is associated with a better prognosis in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) remains uncertain. The Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study (CIBIS) II showed that bisoprolol reduced all-cause mortality and morbidity rates in CHF patients treated with diuretics and ACE inhibitors. We examined whether survival was different in men (n=2132) and women (n=515) enrolled in CIBIS II.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11159149
In the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) trial (1985-1990), active treatment reduced the incidence of cardiovascular events, but not that of dementia and disability, as compared with placebo. This study aims to evaluate if assessment of cognitive and functional outcomes was biased by differential dropout. Characteristics of subjects who did or did not participate in follow-up cognitive and functional evaluations were compared. The relative risks of incident cognitive impairment and disability were assessed in the two treatment groups, with the use of the reported findings and under the assumption that the proportions of cognitive and functional impairment among dropouts increased. Assignment to the placebo group and the occurrence of cardiovascular events independently predicted missed assessments. From the reported findings, the risk of cognitive and functional impairment was similar between the two treatment groups. However, when 20-30% and 40-80% of the subjects who missed the assessment were assumed to be cognitively and, respectively, functionally impaired, assignment to active treatment reduced the risk of these outcomes. In the SHEP, the cognitive and functional evaluations were biased toward the null effect by differential dropout. This might have obscured the appraisal of a protective effect of treatment on the cognitive and functional decline of older hypertensive adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11161946
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11161949
Systematic data are sparse on clinical outcome after acute coronary disease followed by cardiac rehabilitation therapy. Therefore, our objective was to determine the long-term development of cardiac risk factors, recurrent clinical events, and cardiac medication in patients undergoing routine in hospital cardiac rehabilitation therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11163733
Autonomic impairment is related to the incidence of sudden death in chronic heart failure (CHF). Our objective was to study autonomic profiles in patients with mild CHF due to coronary artery disease, and to investigate the value of add-on beta-blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11163746
This article continues a series of reports summarising recent research developments pertinent to the topic of heart failure. This is a summary of presentations made at scientific sessions of the American Heart Association in November 2000. Clinical studies of particular interest to people caring for patients with heart failure include Val-HeFT, AMIOVIRT and V-MAC. New data from beta-blockers trials are reviewed, highlights from some important developments in post-infarction care, including MIRACL and FLORIDA, discussed and results of some early studies of gene therapy reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11165421
The Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) is a randomized, practice-based trial sponsored by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI). The double-blind, active-controlled component of ALLHAT was designed to determine whether the rate of the primary outcome-a composite of fatal coronary heart disease and nonfatal myocardial infarction-differs between diuretic (chlorthalidone) treatment and each of three other classes of antihypertensive drugs: a calcium antagonist (amlodipine), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (lisinopril), and an alpha-adrenergic blocker (doxazosin) in high-risk hypertensive persons ages 55 years and older. In addition, 10,377 ALLHAT participants with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia were also enrolled in a randomized, open-label trial designed to determine whether lowering serum LDL cholesterol with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor (pravastatin) will reduce all-cause mortality as compared to a control group receiving "usual care." In January 2000, an independent data review committee recommended discontinuing the doxazosin treatment arm. The NHLBI director promptly accepted the recommendation. This article discusses the steps involved in the orderly closeout of one arm of ALLHAT and the dissemination of trial results. These steps included provisional preparations; the actual decision process; establishing a timetable; forming a transition committee; preparing materials and instructions; informing 65 trial officers and coordinators, 628 active clinics and satellite locations, 313 institutional review boards, over 42,000 patients, and the general public; reporting detailed trial results; and monitoring the closeout process. Control Clin Trials 2001;22:29-41

Abstract for pubmed ID 11165547
Previous comparisons of coronary heart disease mortality between Mexican Americans and non-Hispanic whites have given paradoxic results: despite their adverse cardiovascular risk profiles, especially a greater prevalence of diabetes, Mexican Americans are reported to have lower rates of mortality from coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11171788
beta-Blockers and ACE inhibitors reduce early mortality when either one is started in the first hours after myocardial infarction (MI). Considering the close correlation between morphological changes and prognosis, we aimed to investigate whether the benefit of both beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors might reside in a similar protective effect on infarct size or ventricular volume.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11174349
To further characterize the effects of heart rate on systolic and diastolic function in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDCM), it was hypothesized that the relationship between heart rate and left ventricular systolic and diastolic function would be unaltered by beta-blockade and exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11175972
This article discusses endoscopic treatment of patients with sequelae from portal hypertension. The literature on endoscopic therapy for primary and secondary prophylaxis of esophageal varices is reviewed. Therapeutic approaches to less commonly seen entities, such as portal gastropathy and portal colopathy, are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11176759
During the past 10 years, the philosophy of heart failure treatment has evolved from symptom control to a combined prevention and symptom-management strategy. Recent clinical trials have proved that early detection can delay progression. Treatment of asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction is as important as treatment of symptomatic disease. The purpose of this review is to simplify recent guidelines for pharmacological management of chronic systolic heart failure for the primary care physician and the heart failure specialist. Early recognition and prevention therapies, combined with lifestyle modification, are essential in the treatment of heart failure. Therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers, and diuretics is now standard. Digoxin is added to improve clinical symptoms, especially in patients with atrial fibrillation. Aldosterone antagonists may be recommended in select patients with stable New York Heart Association class III or IV heart failure. If angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are not tolerated, angiotensin receptor blockers, hydralazine hydrochloride, and isosorbide dinitrate are recommended. The data on antiarrhythmic and anticoagulation therapies are inconclusive.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11179247
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11182177
To evaluate the effect of beta1-selective blocker bisoprolol on the QT and QTc dispersion in patients with chronic heart failure and to compare the responses to bisoprolol in patients with different etiologies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11182704
We examined whether cardiac sympathetic imaging with iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) would predict improvement of left ventricular (LV) function and exercise capacity in patients with heart failure after treatment with carvedilol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11189013
Assessing combined anti-platelet therapy in suspected acute myocardial infarction Aspirin has been shown to be effective in the emergency treatment of acute myocardial infarction. It irreversibly inhibits platelet cyclo-oxygenase and thereby prevents the formation of the platelet aggregating agent thromboxane A2. Clopidogrel is an anti-platelet agent that acts by a different mechanism, inhibiting adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation. Simultaneous inhibition of both of these pathways might produce significantly greater anti-platelet effects than inhibition of either alone. The Second Chinese Cardiac Study (CCS-2) will reliably determine whether adding oral clopidogrel to aspirin for up to 4 weeks in hospital after suspected acute myocardial infarction can produce a greater reduction in the risk of major vascular events than can be achieved by giving aspirin alone. In order to be able to detect a further reduction of 10-15%, some 20,000-40,000 patients in over 1000 Chinese hospitals will be randomized. Assessing early beta-blocker therapy in suspected acute myocardial infarction Although over 27,000 patients have been studied previously in randomized trials of short-term beta-blocker therapy in acute myocardial infarction, the reduction in early mortality (513 (3.7%) for beta-blocker therapy deaths versus 586 (4.3%) for control deaths) was only just conventionally significant (P = 0.02) and, overall, the absolute benefits were small in the relatively low-risk patients studied. Although there might be worthwhile benefit in higher risk patients, there is currently little routine use of beta-blocker therapy in acute myocardial infarction. Hence, patients in CCS-2 will also be randomly allocated to receive metoprolol (intravenous then oral) or matching placebo for up to 4 weeks in hospital in a 2 x 2 factorial design. Such a design allows all patients to contribute fully to assessment of the separate effects of the anti-platelet regimen and the beta-blocker (without any material effect on study cost or sample size requirements) whilst also providing information about their combined effects. A streamlined trial in a wide range of patients In order to randomize 20,000-40,000 patients, the design of CCS-2 has been streamlined: data collection and other extra work for collaborators is minimal, allowing busy hospitals to take part easily. All patients presenting within 24 h of the onset of suspected acute myocardial infarction are eligible for the study provided they have a definite ECG abnormality and are not persistently hypotensive, and provided the doctor responsible considers there to be no clear indication for or contraindication to either of the trial treatments. Apart from administration of the trial treatments, all other aspects of individual patient management are entirely at the discretion of the doctor responsible. By including many different types of patient from many different types of hospital, with wide variation in ancillary management, the CCS-2 results will be of direct clinical relevance to the heterogeneous realities of future clinical practice. The trial began in July 1999 and is expected to be completed by the year 2003.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11190416
Digoxin remains one of the most commonly prescribed of all cardiac medications. The main indications for digoxin usage include atrial fibrillation and heart failure; both these conditions are more prevalent in older patients. Given the aging population and the increasing incidence of heart failure we would expect prescribing of digoxin to remain as frequent or to even increase in older patients. Older patients are also more likely to develop toxicity and diagnosis of digoxin toxicity can be difficult in this group. Numerous components contribute to the development of toxicity in older patients, ranging from aging-related changes in renal function or body mass to polypharmacy and possible interactions with digoxin. It is therefore important to understand how the pharmacokinetics of digoxin may be altered in the older population. Application of basic pharmacological principles may be helpful in anticipating these problems. This review describes the pharmacokinetics of digoxin, the changes in pharmacokinetics with increasing age and how concomitant disease states or drug interactions may affect the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. Greater knowledge about the causes and prevention of digoxin toxicity should further reduce the morbidity and mortality arising from digoxin toxicity, especially in the elderly population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11191937
To compare the effects of amlodipine and slow release metoprolol on subjective symptoms and signs of ischaemia during bicycle ergometric exercise tests in patients with stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11195606
There is no method available to predict the relative antianginal efficacy of beta blockers and calcium-channel antagonists. The present study was undertaken to assess the role of silent ischemic interval (SII) on exercise treadmill test (ETT) as a predictor of response to therapy with metoprolol and diltiazem in patients with stable angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11196552
Performance of dual chamber implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) systems has been judged based on functioning of the ventricular tachycardia:supraventricular tachycardia (VT:SVT) discrimination criteria and DDD pacing. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of dual chamber diagnostics to improve the electrical and antiarrhythmic therapy of ventricular arrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11198553
Economic analysis of bisoprolol plus standard therapy versus placebo plus standard therapy in the treatment of chronic heart failure in Germany.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11199945
In a controlled trial, the beta-adrenoceptor/5-hydroxytryptamine-1A (5-HT1A) receptor antagonist pindolol accelerated and enhanced the antidepressant effect of fluoxetine. The median times to sustained response (> or = 50% reduction of baseline severity maintained until endpoint) were 19 days for fluoxetine plus pindolol (N = 55) and 29 days for fluoxetine plus placebo (N = 56) (p = 0.01). The response rate at endpoint was 16% greater in patients treated with the combination. The plasma concentration of pindolol remained stable between 3 days (first blood sampling) and 6 weeks. Mean values were approximately 26 nM, a concentration higher than the Ki of (-)pindolol for human 5-HT1A autoreceptors (11 nM). Plasma fluoxetine and norfluoxetine concentrations increased steadily until the fourth week of treatment. Fluoxetine concentrations were lower in patients receiving the combination (p = 0.043), but there was no significant relationship to the clinical response in either group. A reanalysis of the data using a survival analysis revealed that significant differences in the time to sustained response between both groups would have also been detected (1) in a 2-week trial, (2) without a placebo lead-in phase, and (3) with less frequent visits. However, the use of "response" instead of "sustained response" as measure of clinically relevant change would have greatly diminished the difference between treatment arms (p = 0.08 instead of p = 0.01). This emphasizes the need of using stringent outcome criteria in antidepressant drug trials. A comparison of the data of all sustained responders (N = 27) in the fluoxetine-plus-placebo group with the first 27 responders in the fluoxetine-plus-pindolol group (of a total of 38) revealed a highly significant difference in the time to sustained response (18 and 10 days, respectively; p = 0.0002). This indicates that the faster response in the fluoxetine-plus-pindolol group is not a result of the greater proportion of responders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11201012
Hypertension increases in prevalence with age. Population based studies suggest that more than 50% of people over the age of 65 years may have chronic hypertension. Hypertension, especially systolic hypertension, is the single most common, powerful, however, treatable risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in the elderly. In order to assess the effectiveness of antihypertensive drug therapy among the elderly, with diuretics, beta-blockers and calcium channel blockers, a literature search was performed at the Cochrane Library, Medline and Excerpta medica. The Cochrane Hypertension Group identified 14 randomised controlled trials of at least one year duration with 21,785 elderly subjects where diuretics, beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers were used in the treatment group as first line drugs. In their meta-analysis (including one small trial with a central acting antiadrenergic drug) there was a decrease in total mortality (111 vs 129 deaths) and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (126 vs 177 events) within the treatment group. The three trials restricted to persons with isolated systolic hypertension indicated beneficial effects in the treatment group with regard to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (104 vs 157 events). Trial data on adverse effects is limited. In three studies, where adverse effects were reported, no substantial differences between treatment and control groups in measures of physical, cognitive and emotional function were found. Cardiovascular benefits of treatment with low dose diuretics or beta-blockers are cleared for elderly subjects with either diastolic or isolated systolic hypertension. Treatment with a long-acting dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker shows beneficial effects in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality for elderly people with isolated systolic hypertension. Due to inconsistent findings in a subgroup meta-analysis of antihypertensive drug treatment in very old people, the efficacy of antihypertensive treatment in these subjects still remains unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11201013
Hypertension has a high prevalence among elderly patients. Randomised trials have already demonstrated that treating healthy older persons with hypertension is highly efficacious. Nevertheless some questions have arisen. On the one hand the generalizability of these trial results, particularly for older persons with serious medical comorbidities and poor functional status, is not clear. On the other hand different antihypertensive drugs have shown to be effective. Which drug for which patient? Even data from randomised intervention trials showing that the treatment affects cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, were missing, ACE inhibitors have been used for more than a decade to treat high blood pressure. For a younger population the captopril prevention project showed no differences between ACE inhibitors and conventional antihypertensive treatment (diuretics, beta-blocker) concerning the primary endpoints (myocardial infarction, stroke and other cardiovascular death). The STOP-2 study also confirmed these results for elderly patients. When treating elderly patients one must be aware of physiological changes with age and the comorbidities. Of significance among this patient group is declining renal function. Admissions for uraemia that are related to the use of ACE inhibitors are still commonplace, although many cases are preventable by monitoring renal function, but guidelines are still missing. Concerning the comorbidities ACE inhibitors have benefits compared to other antihypertensive drugs, especially in cases of heart failure, diabetes and coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11204288
Pharmacogenetic investigation seeks to identify genetic factors that contribute to interpatient and interdrug variation in responses to antihypertensive drug therapy. Classical studies have characterized single gene polymorphisms of drug metabolizing enzymes that are responsible for large interindividual differences in pharmacokinetic responses to several antihypertensive drugs. Progress is being made using candidate gene and genome scanning approaches to identify and characterize many additional genes influencing pharmacodynamic mechanisms that contribute to interindividual differences in responses to antihypertensive drug therapy. Knowledge of polymorphic variation in these genes will help to predict individual patients' blood pressure responses to antihypertensive drug therapy and may also provide new insights into molecular mechanisms responsible for elevation of blood pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11206674
The aim of this study was to compare the effect of antihypertensive treatment with valsartan or cavedilol on sexual activity in hypertensive men who were never treated for hypertension. A total of 160 newly diagnosed hypertensive men (diastolic blood pressure [DBP] > or = 95 mm Hg and < 110 mm Hg), aged 40 to 49 years, all married and without any previous sexual disfunction, were enrolled. After a 4-week placebo period, the patients were divided into two groups: a) 120 patients were randomized to receive carvedilol 50 mg once daily or valsartan 80 mg once daily for 16 weeks according to a double-blind, cross-over design; after another 4-week placebo period, patients were crossed over to the alternative regimen for a further 16 weeks; b) 40 patients were treated with placebo according to a single-blind design for 16 weeks. At the screening visit and every 4 weeks thereafter, blood pressure (BP) was evaluated and patients were interviewed by a questionnaire about their sexual activity. Blood pressure was significantly lowered by both treatments, with a 48% of normalization with valsartan and 45% with carvedilol. During the first month of therapy, sexual activity (assessed as number of sexual intercourse episodes per month) declined with both drugs as compared with baseline, although the decrease was statistically significant in the carvedilol (from 8.2 to 4.4 sexual intercourse episodes, P < .01) but not in the valsartan-treated patients (from 8.3 to 6.6 sexual intercourse episodes, not significant). Ongoing with the treatment the sexual activity further worsened with carvedilol (3.7 sexual intercourse episodes per month) while fully recovered and also improved with valsartan (10.2 sexual intercourse episodes per month). The results were confirmed by the cross-over. Erectile dysfunction was a complaint of 15 patients with carvedilol (13.5%), one patient with valsartan (0.9%), and one patient in the placebo group. These findings suggest that carvedilol induces a chronic worsening of sexual activity, whereas valsartan not only does not significantly worsen sexual activity but may even improve it.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11207505
The development of varices is a major complication of cirrhosis, and variceal haemorrhage has a high mortality. There have been major advances in the primary and secondary prevention of variceal haemorrhage over the last 20 years involving endoscopic, radiological and pharmacological approaches. This review concentrates principally on drug therapy, particularly on the numerous haemodynamic studies. Many of these drugs have not been studied in clinical trials, but provide data about the underlying pathogenesis of portal hypertension. Also covered in this review are the randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses that involve a large number of patients. These trials involve relatively few drugs such as non-selective beta-blockers and nitrates. Correlations between haemodynamic and clinical parameters are discussed. Despite the recent increase in the use of alternative endoscopic therapies, an effective and well tolerated drug remains a clinically important research goal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11208254
Heart failure develops as a consequence of cardiac injury. As the heart begins to fail to meet the body's metabolic demands, the renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) and the sympathetic nervous system are activated. These interrelated systems act in concert to facilitate cardiac output and tissue perfusion. Though these neurohormonal systems are initially compensatory, evidence suggests that they promote deleterious cardiac remodeling and myocyte destruction. Recent studies in patients with heart failure have targeted the RAAS and sympathetic nervous system for therapeutic intervention. This article reviews major recent multicenter, randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled trials in heart failure that have resulted in a new standard of care for patients with this devastating disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11211903
Esophageal variceal bleeding occur more often at night, however, the mechanism for this remains unclear. This study investigated the daily variation of azygos blood flow (AzBF) and portal blood flow (PBF) and the effects of propranolol administration given once in evening in cirrhotics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11212064
The aim of this study was to describe the renal function (renal hemodynamics, water and sodium handling) and its relation to cardiovascular structural changes in a population of essential hypertensive patients before and after antihypertensive treatment. Glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow were measured by a constant infusion technique. The reference substances used were [131I]iodohippurate (Hippuran) and [125I]iothalamate. The lithium clearance method was used for measuring renal water and sodium handling. Microalbuminuria was measured. A subcutaneous gluteal biopsy was taken and the media thickness to lumen diameter ratio of small resistance vessels was determined. Left ventricular mass index was determined by echocardiography. Thirty-seven patients with newly diagnosed or poorly controlled essential hypertension were randomized to treatment with regimens based upon either isradipine, perindopril or hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride. Atenolol and hydralazine were added as secondary and tertiary drugs, respectively, when needed for normalization of diastolic blood pressure. Investigations were performed before and after 9 months of normalization of blood pressure. Renal function in untreated hypertensive patients was characterized by increased renal vascular resistance, decreased renal blood flow, normal glomerular filtration fraction and normal serum creatinine. No association was found between peripheral resistance vessel structure in subcutaneous vessels and renal hemodynamic parameters. Patients with severe left ventricular hypertrophy (left ventricular mass >360 g) had lower glomerular filtration fraction, greater renal vascular resistance, lower renal blood flow and increased microalbuminuria in comparison with patients with less pronounced cardiac changes. After 1 year of treatment, which had a profound effect on heart and vessel structure, renal hemodynamics were unchanged in patients receiving antihypertensive treatment regimens based on the ACE inhibitor perindopril or the Ca-antagonist isradipine, whereas renal plasma flow was reduced, glomerular filtration rate preserved and filtration fraction significantly increased in those treated with a regimen based on diuretics. The serum creatinine concentration was decreased in the former group, whereas it was unchanged in the latter two. Significantly detrimental effect on uric acid homeostasis was only found in patients treated with a regimen based on diuretics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11214707
Mounting evidence shows that elevated resting sinus rate is an independent predictor of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in the general population, in elderly subjects, and in patients with myocardial infarction or hypertension. Therefore, a rather slow sinus rate appears to be a protecting factor acting through several mechanisms. The present contribution focuses on the relationship between sinus rate and heart failure. Its major objectives are to discuss whether in patients with heart failure a rather slow heart rate is advisable and whether a sinus bradycardia secondary to sinus node dysfunction can facilitate the development of heart failure. It has been reported that among patients with left ventricular dysfunction, increased sinus rate was a predictor of cardiovascular death at univariate analysis; however, a multivariate analysis to verify whether sinus rate was an independent predictor of mortality was not performed. Randomized trials carried out by utilizing beta-blockers or amiodarone in patients with heart failure showed that heart rate reduction by these drugs was a marker of their ability to reduce mortality. However, beta-blockers and amiodarone have additional pharmacological effects which interfere with the disease substrate. So, at present, though the results of these trials show that a rather slow sinus rate is advisable, we do not know whether in patients with heart failure sinus rate represents an independent predictor of mortality as in patients with myocardial infarction or hypertension and whether the reduction of sinus rate per se is beneficial. The results of the recent randomized THEOPACE trial showed, for the first time, that in a patient population with symptomatic sinus bradycardia (sinus rate < 50 b/min), an increase in heart rate, induced by DDD pacing or oral theophylline, reduced the incidence of overt heart failure. Therefore, sinus bradycardia seems to play a role in the genesis of heart failure. In a post-hoc analysis of the results of this trial it emerged that in the control (not treated) group, the subjects with sinus bradycardia more prone to develop heart failure were those of old age, about 80 years, with organic heart disease and severe chronotropic incompetence. However, this conclusion needs further validation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11214769
The aim of this study was to test the effects of carvedilol on blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) during whole-body cold exposure in hypertensive and normotensive subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11216954
The aim of this study was to investigate in dialysis patients with symptomatic heart failure New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II or III whether the addition of carvedilol to conventional therapy is associated with beneficial effects on cardiac architecture, function and clinical status.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11216965
We sought to study the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition on exercise-induced myocardial ischemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11216977
We tested the efficacy of two drug treatments, flecainide (F) and the combination ofdiltiazem and propranolol (D/P), administered as a single oral dose for termination of the arrhythmic episodes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11216978
This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of atenolol for the long-term management of patients with vasovagal syncope. The primary hypothesis was that atenolol is not superior to placebo for the treatment of vasovagal syncope.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11219471
This study was undertaken to compare the efficacy and tolerability of telmisartan, a novel antihypertensive agent, and atenolol, a well-established beta-blocker, in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11220350
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11222470
We previously reported beneficial effects of pentoxifylline, a xanthine-derived agent known to inhibit the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy treated with diuretics, digoxin, and ACE inhibitors. Since then, 3 large clinical trials showed important clinical benefits of beta-blockers in this population. Therefore, we designed the present study to establish whether in patients with heart failure already receiving treatment with ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers, the addition of pentoxifylline would have an additive beneficial effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11224003
A poor therapeutic compliance is a major cause of insufficient control of hypertension. As education of patients is fundamental in order to improve their compliance, we organised two pilot educational meetings aimed at (1) assessing the support of patients to this kind of meetings, and (2) verifying the impact on patient's education.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11224723
The prostaglandin analogs are new exciting drugs added to the therapeutic armamentarium for patients with glaucoma. Several studies have evaluated the ocular hypotensive properties and side effects of latanoprost in different forms of glaucoma. This drug, seems to be the most effective intraocular pressure (IOP)-reducing agent currently available, and has a low incidence of ocular and systemic side effects. Fewer data are available regarding unoprostone, but the IOP-reducing effect of this drug seems to be comparable or slightly inferior to that of timolol and it produces fewer side effects. When compared with unoprostone, latanoprost has been shown to effect a greater reduction in IOP. A major drawback to the use of prostaglandin analogues is the lack of long-term experience such as that currently available for other classes of agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11225566
The objective of this study was to examine the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic consequences of concomitant administration of fluoxetine and carvedilol in heart failure patients. Fluoxetine (20 mg) or matching placebo was administered in a randomized, double-blind, two-period crossover study to 10 patients previously identified as extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates. Patients were maintained on a carvedilol dose of 25 or 50 mg bid and given fluoxetine/placebo for a minimum of 28 days. Plasma was collected over the 12-hour carvedilol dosing interval, and the concentrations of the R(+) and S(-) enantiomers of carvedilol were measured. CYP2D6 phenotype was assessed during each study period using dextromethorphan (30 mg). Changes in autonomic modulation between study periods were measured by heart rate variability in the time and frequency domains using ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. Compared to placebo, fluoxetine coadministration resulted in a 77% increase in mean (+/- SD) R(+) enantiomer AUC0-12 (522 +/- 413 vs. 927 +/- 506 ng.h/mL, p = 0.01) and a nonsignificant increase in S(-) enantiomer AUC (244 +/- 185 vs. 330 +/- 179 ng.h/mL, p = 0.17). Mean apparent oral clearance for both enantiomers decreased significantly with fluoxetine administration (R(+): 10.3 +/- 7.2 vs. 4.5 +/- 2.2 mL/min/kg; S(-): 22.5 +/- 12.3 vs. 12.6 +/- 7.4 mL/min/kg; p = 0.004 and 0.03, respectively). No differences in adverse effects, blood pressure, or heart rate were noted between treatment groups, and there were no consistent changes in heart rate variability parameters. In conclusion, fluoxetine administration resulted in a stereospecific inhibition of carvedilol metabolism, with the R(+) enantiomer increasing to a greater extent than the S(-) enantiomer. However, this interaction was of little clinical significance in our sample population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11230280
One of the arguments put forward against the primary use of beta-blockers has been concern about adverse metabolic effects, such as unfavorable effects on lipids or insulin sensitivity. Another less-appreciated potential drawback is their propensity to cause weight gain in some patients. In 8 evaluable prospective randomized controlled trials that lasted >/=6 months, body weight was higher in the beta-blocker than in the control group at the end of the study. The median difference in body weight was 1.2 kg (range -0.4 to 3.5 kg). A regression analysis suggested that beta-blockers were associated with an initial weight gain during the first few months. Thereafter, no further weight gain compared with controls was apparent. There was no relationship between demographic characteristics and changes in body weight. Based on these observations, the first-line use of beta-blockers in obese hypertensive patients should be reviewed. Obesity management in overweight hypertensive patients may be more difficult in the face of beta-blocker treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11230298
The observation in the 1970s that the performance of the dysfunctional left ventricle was under the influence of aortic impedance led us to exploration of the role of the renin-angiotensin system and other hormonal systems in the progression of heart failure. The apparent efficacy of vasodilator drugs led to the first randomized, controlled trial in heart failure that demonstrated that all impedance-lowering drugs did not exert the same long-term benefit. Differences on the structural remodeling process in the myocardium and arterial vasculature were shown to account for the differential long-term response. We now recognize that the remodeling process in the left ventricle may be inhibited by nitrates, converting enzyme inhibitors, and beta-blockers, and this growth process leads to adverse outcomes. The impedance load on the left ventricle is influenced by vascular remodeling that also may be inhibited by drugs such as converting enzyme inhibitors. Thus, progression of cardiovascular disease is largely a consequence of structural changes that are hormonally mediated and may be inhibited by drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11231439
Enhanced immune activation has been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of congestive heart failure (CHF). There is evidence for interactions between the sympathetic nervous system and the immune system. We therefore examined the effect of the selective beta(1)-receptor blocker metoprolol on various immunologic variables in CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11231847
Perioperative morbidity and mortality are frequently cardiac in origin. Many studies have prospectively attempted to define risk factors for cardiac ischemic events. Although we can now identify high-risk patients, optimal cardioprotective management strategies remain unclear. Treatment with beta-adrenergic antagonists decreases myocardial oxygen consumption and is generally well tolerated. This article reviews the physiologic and clinical basis for using these agents as prophylaxis against cardiovascular events in high-risk surgical patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11239855
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11244515
Although the principle of reducing plaque load in the coronary artery remains very appealing, clinical benefit from debulking devices has not been demonstrated unequivocally. Other approaches to prevent restenosis had been the application of various pharmacological agents. Unfortunately, the majority of clinical studies have not reproduced the promising results observed in the experimental laboratories. New frontiers in improving atherectomy devices and in optimizing concomitant medical treatment are currently being explored. We report on the EUROCARE trial investigating the possible benefit of carvedilol after coronary atherectomy, and the Pullback Atherectomy (PAC) pilot trial using a novel atherectomy device.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11246060
Clinical trials, the gold standard for the evaluation of new therapeutic strategies, may prove a drug to be beneficial, harmful or neutral according to its effect on the end-point(s) under study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11246064
This paper reports on an international comparison of the characteristics, treatment and health outcomes of chronic heart failure (CHF) patients discharged from acute hospital care in Australia and Scotland. The baseline characteristics and treatment of 200 CHF patients recruited to a randomised study of a non-pharmacological intervention in Australia and 157 CHF patients concurrently recruited to a similar study in Scotland were compared. Subsequent health outcomes (including survival and readmission) within 3 months of discharge in those patients who received usual post-discharge care in Australia (n=100) and Scotland (n=75) were also compared. Individuals in both countries were predominantly old and frail with significant comorbidity likely to complicate treatment. Similar proportions of Australian and Scottish patients were prescribed either a 'high' (20 vs. 18%) or medium (64 vs. 66%) dose of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. Proportionately more Australian patients were prescribed a long-acting nitrate, digoxin and/or a beta-blocker. At 3 months post-discharge, 57 of the 100 (57%: 95% CI 47--67%) Australian and 37 of the 75 (49%: 95% CI 38--61%) Scottish patients assigned to 'usual care' remained event-free (NS). Similarly, 15 vs. 12% required > or =2 unplanned readmission (NS) and 16 vs. 19% of Australian and Scottish patients, respectively, died (NS). Australian and Scottish patients accumulated a median of 0.6 vs. 0.9 days, respectively, of hospitalisation/patient/month (NS). On multivariate analysis (including country of origin), unplanned readmission or death was independently correlated with severe renal impairment (adjusted odds ratio 4.4, P<0.05), a previous hospitalisation for CHF (2.3, P<0.05), longer index hospitalisation (2.7 for >10 days, P<0.05) and greater comorbidity (1.3 for each incremental unit of the Charlson Index, P=0.05). Health outcomes among predominantly old and frail CHF patients appear to be independent of the health-care system in which the patient is managed and more likely to be dependent on the syndrome itself.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11246837
To evaluate the effects of patient education for hypertension on hypertension control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11249904
Of 613 persons, mean age 79 +/- 9 years, with prior myocardial infarction and diabetes mellitus, 68 (11%) had contraindications to beta blockers; 289 of 545 persons (53%) without contraindications to beta blockers were treated with beta blockers. The Cox regression model showed that significant independent predictors of new coronary events were age (risk ratio 1.02 for an increment of 1 year of age), systemic hypertension (risk ratio 2.0), serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol > or =125 mg/dl (risk ratio 1.4), serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol < or =35 mg/dl (risk ratio 1.6), and use of beta blockers (risk ratio 0.73).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11251129
Ischemic heart disease is an important and common contributor to the development of heart failure. Theoretically, all patients with heart failure may benefit from treatment designed to retard progressive ventricular dysfunction and arrhythmias. Patients with ischemic heart disease may also theoretically benefit from the relief of ischemia, the prevention of coronary occlusion, and revascularization. However, there is little evidence to show that the presence or absence of coronary disease modifies the benefits of effective treatments such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers. Moreover, there is no evidence that treatment directed specifically at myocardial ischemia or coronary disease alters outcome in patients with heart failure. Treatments aimed at relieving painless myocardial ischemia have not been shown to alter prognosis. Lipid-lowering therapy is theoretically attractive for patients with heart failure and coronary disease; however, theoretical concerns also exist about the safety of such agents, and patients with heart failure have been excluded from large outcome studies very effectively. Some agents, such as aspirin, designed to reduce the risk of coronary occlusion seem ineffective or harmful in patients with heart failure, although warfarin may be safe and possibly effective. There is no evidence yet that revascularization improves prognosis in patients with heart failure, even in patients who are shown to have extensive myocardial hibernation. On current evidence, revascularization should be reserved for the relief of angina. Large-scale, randomized controlled trials are currently underway that are investigating the role of specific treatments targeted at coronary syndromes. The Carvedilol Hibernation Reversible Ischemia Trial: Marker of Success study is investigating the effects of carvedilol in a large cohort of patients with and without hibernating myocardium. The Warfarin and Antiplatelet Therapy in Chronic Heart Failure study is comparing the efficacy of aspirin, clopidogrel, and warfarin. The Heart Revascularization Trial-United Kingdom study is assessing the effect of revascularization on mortality in patients with heart failure and myocardial hibernation. Smaller scale studies are assessing the safety and efficacy of statin therapy in patients with heart failure. Only once the outcomes to these and other planned trials are known can the medical community know how best to treat their patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11252291
A systematic review of the literature was undertaken, to consolidate evidence concerning the efficacy and safety of triptans currently available in Canada (sumatriptan, rizatriptan, naratriptan, zolmitriptan), and to provide guidelines for selection of a triptan.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11255522
In North America, atrial fibrillation is associated with at least 75 000 ischemic strokes each year. Most of these strokes occur in patients older than 75 years of age. The high incidence of stroke in very elderly persons reflects the increasing prevalence of atrial fibrillation that occurs with advanced age, the high incidence of stroke in elderly patients, and the failure of physicians to prescribe antithrombotic therapy in most of these patients. This failure is related to the increased risk for major hemorrhage with advanced age, obfuscating the decision to institute stroke prophylaxis with antithrombotic therapy. This case-based review describes the risk and benefits of prescribing antithrombotic therapy for a hypothetical 80-year-old man who has atrial fibrillation and hypertension, and it offers practical advice on managing warfarin therapy. After concluding that the benefits of warfarin outweigh its risks in this patient, we describe how to initiate warfarin therapy cautiously and how to monitor and dose the drug. We then review five recent randomized, controlled trials that document the increased risk for stroke when an international normalized ratio (INR) of less than 2.0 is targeted among patients with atrial fibrillation. Next, we make the case that cardioversion is not needed for this asymptomatic patient with chronic atrial fibrillation. Instead, we choose to leave the patient in atrial fibrillation and to control his ventricular rate with atenolol. Later, when the INR increases to 4.9, we advocate withholding one dose of warfarin and repeating the INR test. Finally, when the patient develops dental pain, we review the analgesic agents that are safe to take with warfarin and explain why warfarin therapy does not have to be interrupted during a subsequent dental extraction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11255611
This study was carried out to determine the degree of control of hypertension and the most commonly used drugs for hypertensive patients attending our community health center.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11255718
The main objective of this research was to compare the efficacy and security of bisoprolol (B), a new cardioselective beta-blocker, that does not have intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, and metoprolol associated to hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), in the treatment of patients with mild to moderate hypertension. Sixty-two hypertensive patients (47 females and 15 males) aged 20 to 70 years (mean 52.5 +/- 10.4) were included in a double-blind, placebo controlled and randomized clinical trial. After a two-weeks wash out period and a similar placebo phase, patients were randomly assigned to receive either a once-daily dosing of B (10 mg) with 6.25 mg of HCTZ, or M (100 mg) plus 6.25 mg of HCTZ during four-weeks. If there was no reduction below 90 mmHg at the end of this period, the dosing of either beta-blocker was doubled. After eight weeks of treatment, the mean decreases in systolic/diastolic blood pressures from baseline were 31.8/21.2 and 28.0/20.6 mmHg for B/HCTZ and M/HCTZ, respectively (p < 0.0001). There were no clinically significant changes from baseline in laboratory parameters in either group. Reduction in blood pressure with B/HCTZ is associated with adverse events and metabolic changes similar to those observed with other antihypertensive drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11256540
Recent evidence suggests that, via the mineralocorticoid receptors present in cardiovascular tissues, aldosterone exerts profibrotic effects, and that partial aldosterone escape occurs during ACE-inhibitor treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11259143
The principal aim of the second EUROASPIRE survey was to determine in patients with established coronary heart disease whether the Joint European Societies' recommendations on coronary prevention are being followed in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11259147
This study was designed to identify potential specialty-related differences in the epidemiology, clinical profile, management and outcome of patients hospitalized for congestive heart failure in departments of cardiology or internal medicine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11263853
Asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction should be treated as an early stage on the continuum that is chronic heart failure. The author presents the clinical trial data on which current management with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers is based. Issues surrounding screening are also discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11264544
Carvedilol has been shown to decrease the progression of heart failure and improve left ventricular function and survival in patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) less than 35%. However, not all patients respond uniformly to this therapy. We proposed to identify variables that could, potentially, be used to predict response to carvedilol therapy as measured by the change in LVEF after treatment (Delta LVEF), and to identify pretreatment variables associated with hospitalization for heart failure after carvedilol therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11265558
A programme of four phase III clinical trials carried out in the USA on 1094 patients showed that Carvedilol, associated with the usual bitherapy and eventually with digitalis, reduced the mortality and number of hospital admissions of patients with cardiac failure. These results, transposed to the French population, may be used to evaluate the economic advantages of Carvedilol by developing a cost-effectiveness study which consists in relating the direct expenses (drugs and hospital admissions) of each of the two strategies, with or without Carvedilol, to their respective mortalities. Hospital expenses were estimated with respect to the H.M.G. corresponding to each hospital stay at 1997-1998 values. The cost in the Carvedilol group was 2,823 FF per patient (including 1,491 FF for the drug itself) but 2,056 FF were economised in hospital expenses. With an increased cost of 767 FF but a 50% reduction in mortality corresponding to a difference in mortality of 45@1000, the cost-effectiveness of Carvedilol was 17,040 per life saved and 2,130 FF per additional year of life expectancy. A study of the sensitivity produced even more favourable results of Carvedilol. An evaluation of hospital expenses on the basis of AP-HP data indicates that the addition of Carvedilol is associated with a 4,425 FF reduction in hospital expenses, which makes it a cost saving strategy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11265951
Beta-blockers and amiodarone reduce the frequency of atrial fibrillation after open-heart surgery but the effectiveness of oral amiodarone in older patients already receiving beta-blockers is unknown. We have assessed the efficacy of oral amiodarone in preventing atrial fibrillation in patients aged 60 years or older undergoing open-heart surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11271956
To compare the effects of sotalol and metoprolol on heart rate, during isotonic (ITE) and isometric (IME) exercise and daily activities, in digitalized patients with chronic atrial fibrillation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11273288
Cough is an important side effect of Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitor (ACEI) therapy. The incidence of cough was investigated in a prospective 8 week study in 250 hypertensive patients receiving ACEI alone or in combination with other agents. Enalapril (5-20 mg/day), Lisinopril (5-20 mg/day), Captopril (25-75 mg/day) or Ramipril (5-15 mg/day) was prescribed to patients, who were followed up at weekly visits. Cough developed in 73 of the 250 patients i.e. an incidence of 29.2%. Females had a higher incidence of cough as compared to males--37.9% versus 15.5% (p < 0.001) and there was no significant difference in the cough incidence in the various age groups. A dry, non-productive cough developed in all patients within 4 weeks of ACEI initiation. Increased nocturnal intensity of cough was reported by 79.4% patients. Cough incidence was 34.4%, 24.3% and 18.1% in patients on Enalapril, Ramipril and Lisinopril, respectively. Cough was not dose related and was not related to smoking. There was no statistically significant difference among patients on ACEI alone or in combination with beta blockers, calcium channel blockers or diuretics. Of the 18 patients with ACEI induced cough who received Indomethacin, 50 mg bid, 8 reported complete cure and cough was reduced in intensity in the remaining ten.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11273985
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11273991
Activation of the renin-angiotensin and sympathetic nervous systems adversely affect heart failure progression. The ACE deletion allele (ACE D) is associated with increased renin-angiotensin activation; however, its influence on patient outcomes remains uncertain, and the pharmacogenetic interactions with beta-blocker therapy have not been previously evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11275919
Our purpose was to test the hypothesis that converting patients with stable angina to long-acting antianginal medications would improve their functional status, symptom control, treatment satisfaction, and quality of life.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11277474
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11281235
The objective of this study was to determine which of the common groups of antihypertensive drugs is most effective at lowering systolic blood pressure (SBP) in elderly patients with previously untreated hypertension and the percentage of patients controlled with single or sequential monotherapy. Subjects were recruited from patients attending other outpatient clinics and entered into the study if their SBP was more than 150 mm Hg after three visits. Patients were given a low and high dose of each of the main classes of drugs or placebo for 1 month each. The study was a balanced, randomized crossover design with five periods: placebo; angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors; beta-blocking drugs; calcium-blocking drugs; and thiazide diuretics. Blood pressure (BP) was measured 24 to 26 h after the previous dose. A questionnaire for side effects was administered at each visit. Seventy-four patients entered the study. beta-Blockers could not be used in 15 patients because of asthma or bronchospasm and these had two placebo periods. There were 9 of 66 patients on P, 9 of 46 on beta-blockers, 4 of 65 on calcium-blocking drugs, 4 of 65 on diuretic, and 1 of 62 patients on ACE inhibitors who did not progress to the higher dose because of side effects. Decreases in SBP compared to randomized placebo were calcium-blocking drugs 15 mm Hg = diuretic 13 mm Hg > ACE inhibitors 8 mm Hg = beta-blockers 5 mm Hg. Blood pressure decrease correlated with placebo BP (P < .0005, r = 0.53 to 0.70). When corrected for placebo, target SBP (<140 mm Hg) was reached in between 6% to 15% of patients on monotherapy. Sequential monotherapy achieved target in 29%. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium-blocking drugs, and diuretics had no more side effects than placebo. Patients on beta-blockers had more side effects and the well-being score was reduced. Diuretics and calcium-blocking drugs are more effective in elderly patients at lowering SBP pressure. beta-Blockers were relatively ineffective, were frequently contraindicated, and had more side effects. Monotherapy achieved control in only a small number of patients. In elderly people with essential hypertension, therapy should be instituted with diuretics or calcium-blocking drugs, but combination therapy will usually be required to achieve goal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11281737
Congestive heart failure is an important cause of patient morbidity and mortality. Although several randomized clinical trials have compared beta-blockers with placebo for treatment of congestive heart failure, a meta-analysis quantifying the effect on mortality and morbidity has not been performed recently.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11283842
Despite publication of several randomized trials of prophylactic variceal ligation, the effect on bleeding-related outcomes is unclear. We performed a meta-analysis of the trials, as identified by electronic database searching and cross-referencing. Both investigators independently applied inclusion and exclusion criteria, and abstracted data from each trial. Standard meta-analytic techniques were used to compute relative risks and the number needed to treat (NNT) for first variceal bleed, bleed-related mortality, and all-cause mortality. Among 601 patients in 5 homogeneous trials comparing prophylactic ligation with untreated controls, relative risks of first variceal bleed, bleed-related mortality, and all-cause mortality were 0.36 (0.26-0.50), 0.20 (0.11-0.39), and 0.55 (0.43-0.71), with respective NNTs of 4.1, 6.7, and 5.3. Among 283 subjects from 4 trials comparing ligation with beta-blocker therapy, the relative risk of first variceal bleed was 0.48 (0.24-0.96), with NNT of 13; however, there was no effect on either bleed-related mortality (relative risk [RR], 0.61; confidence interval [CI], 0.20-1.88) or all-cause mortality (RR, 0.95; CI, 0.56-1.62). In conclusion, compared with untreated controls, prophylactic ligation reduces the risks of variceal bleeding and mortality. Compared with beta-blockers, ligation reduces the risk for first variceal bleed but has no effect on mortality. Prophylactic ligation should be considered for patients with large esophageal varices who cannot tolerate beta-blockers. Subsequent research should further compare ligation and beta-blockers to determine the effect on mortality, and measure ligation's cost-effectiveness.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11288383
Extensive data from many randomised controlled trials have shown the benefit of treating hypertension. The target blood pressure (BP) for antihypertensive management should be systolic < 140 mmHg and diastolic < 90 mmHg, with minimal or no drug side-effects. However, a lesser reduction will elicit benefit, although this is not optimal. The reduction of BP in the elderly and in those with severe hypertension should be achieved gradually over 6 months. Stricter BP control is required for patients with end-organ damage, coexisting risk factors and co-morbidity, e.g. diabetes mellitus. Coexistent risk factors should also be controlled.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11288822
In the outcome trials that provided information on renal function in older hypertensive patients, diuretics and beta-blockers were mostly used as first-line drugs. The long-term renal effects of calcium-channel blockers remain unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11288962
Hypertension is a major problem throughout the developed world. Although current antihypertensive treatment regimens reduce morbidity and mortality, patients are often noncompliant, and medications may not completely normalize blood pressure. As a result, current therapy frequently does not prevent or reverse the cardiovascular remodeling that often occurs when blood pressure is chronically elevated. Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is effective in controlling hypertension and treating congestive heart failure. Both angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) inhibit the activity of the RAS, but these two classes of antihypertensive medications have different mechanisms of action and different pharmacologic profiles. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors block a single pathway in the production of angiotensin II (Ang II). In addition, angiotensin I is not the only substrate for ACE. The ACE inhibitors also block the degradation of bradykinin that may have potential benefits in cardiovascular disease. Bradykinin is, however, the presumed cause of cough associated with ACE inhibitor therapy. Data from clinical trials on ACE inhibitors serve to support the involvement of the RAS in the development of cardiovascular disease. Angiotensin receptor blockers act distally in the RAS to block the Ang II type 1 (AT1) receptor selectively. Thus, ARBs are more specific agents and avoid many side effects. Experimental and clinical trials have documented the efficacy of ARBs in preserving target-organ function and reversing cardiovascular remodeling. In some instances, maximal benefit may be obtained with Ang II blockade using both ARBs and ACE inhibitors. This review describes clinical trials that document the efficacy of ARBs in protecting the myocardium, blood vessels, and renal vasculature.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11292228
Preventive therapy for migraine headache includes identification of migraine precipitants, possible adjustments in lifestyle, appropriate management of acute headache, and, when necessary, the use of pharmacologic agents. There are no well-controlled clinical trials with sufficient patient numbers to support the use of any agent in the prevention of migraine headache in children. Data on the use of amitriptyline and divalproex sodium in open-label studies suggest that these agents may be efficacious. The mechanism of action for these agents is unknown but may be related to the 5-hydroxytyptamine-2 (5-HT2) receptor antagonism or regulation of ion channels. A review of the pertinent literature on migraine prophylaxis in children is presented. Dosing guidelines are presented based on the limited data available and clinical experience.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11293353
In recent years, the expenses for medical antihypertensive therapy have increased considerably, the main reason being the switchover to newer and more expensive antihypertensive drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11296462
The assessment of results of medical treatment, angioplasty and coronary bypass surgery in diabetic coronary patients is difficult because of the absence of distinction in the subgroups of type 1 and 2 diabetes and of stable and unstable angina. With respect to medical therapy, betablockers are practically without deleterious effects and are effective in diabetic populations. The same is true of other antianginal drugs. Conventional coronary angioplasty is associated with poorer results than the general population in the long-term, partly because of progression of the coronary artery disease and partly because of an increased incidence of restenosis. The use of stents improves these results, which are similar to those of the general population with single vessel disease or those without proteinuria. Coronary bypass surgery, despite a certain perioperative morbidity, is associated with an identical survival rate at 5 years as non-diabetics, providing the internal mammary artery is grafted. The comparison between these methods is resumed in the ACIP study which opposes the 3 strategies, in Morris et al's study comparing medical and surgical approaches and, finally, in the recent BARI trial where patients were randomly allocated to angioplasty or surgery. It would appear that the surgical strategy gives better results in multivessel disease. However, many reserves have been voiced because of the small numbers of patients, the high number of excluded patients and the fact that recent progress in angioplasty with widespread use of stenting associated with the prescription of new antiaggregant drugs was not taken into account.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11298665
This study was designed to assess the pharmacokinetics of almotriptan, a 5-HT1B/1D agonist, when administered in the presence and absence of propranolol. Healthy male (n = 10) and female (n = 2) volunteers received (i) 80 mg propranolol twice daily for 7 days and 12.5 mg almotriptan on day 7, and (ii) 12.5 mg almotriptan on day 7, according to a two-way crossover design. Plasma and urinary almotriptan concentrations were measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods. Treatment effects on pharmacokinetic parameters were assessed by analysis of variance (ANOVA). Statistically significant differences between treatments in area under the curve (AUC), clearance, and half-life were observed (P < 0.03), but these differences were < 7%. Ninety percent confidence interval analysis of log-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters showed that the treatments were equivalent. Adverse events were mild to moderate in intensity, and no treatment effects on vital signs were observed. The results show that propranolol has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of almotriptan. Concomitant administration of the two drugs is well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11298666
The prophylactic action of cyclandelate was investigated in a multicentre, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group study. A 4-week baseline period was followed by a 4-week placebo phase and a 16-week treatment period with either 1600 mg cyclandelate or placebo. Patients (n = 251) with two to six migraine attacks/month were randomized. Neither the primary study endpoint (reduction of migraine days from baseline to the last 28 days) nor most of the secondary endpoints (reduction in the number of migraine attacks, severity or duration of attacks, frequency of autonomic disturbances, medication for treatment of attacks) showed a difference between cyclandelate and placebo. Cyclandelate, however, was superior to placebo in a global impression of efficacy rated by the patients and the treating physicians. Both treatments were well tolerated. In conclusion, cyclandelate was not superior to placebo in the prophylaxis of migraine with regard to parameters usually used in migraine prophylaxis trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11300246
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11303005
To develop and test a cardiac prevention and rehabilitation programme for achieving sustained lifestyle, risk factor, and therapeutic targets in patients presenting for the first time with exertional angina, acute coronary syndromes, or coronary revascularisation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11305807
There are few data to demonstrate the feasibility of long-term blood pressure (BP) control using short dialysis sessions as practiced in the US. Control of hypertension in hemodialysis patients may reduce the risk of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11312480
To evaluate magnesium as a sole or adjuvant agent with currently used prophylactic drugs in suppressing postoperative atrial tachyarrhythmias (POAT) after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11317165
The novel cyclooxygenase- (COX)-2 inhibitor celecoxib is an effective treatment for the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Conventional treatment for these debilitating conditions routinely involves the use of conventional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which are nonspecific inhibitors of COX-1 and COX-2. Numerous studies suggest that inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by NSAIDs is deleterious to kidney function, particularly in high-risk patients. As celecoxib inhibits COX-2 and spares COX-1 at therapeutic doses, we hypothesized that it may offer an improved renal safety profile in patients at risk for NSAID-induced renal toxicity. This article represents a post hoc analysis of the renal safety of celecoxib, using the safety database generated during its clinical development program. This analysis includes data from more than 50 clinical studies involving more than 13,000 subjects. Most subjects were enrolled in randomized, controlled trials (of up to 12 weeks' duration); however, more than 5000 subjects received celecoxib for as long as 2 years in a long-term, open-label study at as much as twice the maximum recommended dosage. The overall incidence of renal adverse events after celecoxib was greater than that after placebo but similar to that after NSAIDs. The most common events reported after celecoxib, namely, peripheral edema (2.1%), hypertension (0.8%), and exacerbation of preexisting hypertension (0.6%), were not time- or dose-related. Peripheral edema was not associated with increased weight or blood pressure. Furthermore, there was no evidence of drug-drug interactions between celecoxib and concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, or diuretics. We conclude that celecoxib is well tolerated by patients who may be at risk for NSAID-induced renal toxicity, such as the elderly and those with hypertension or preexisting chronic heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11317188
It remains controversial whether non-malignant 'benign' hypertension causes renal dysfunction. The effect of lowering blood pressure on the incidence of renal dysfunction among patients with non-malignant hypertension is not clear. This meta-analysis was conducted to determine whether antihypertensive drug therapy reduces the incidence of renal dysfunction in patients with non-malignant hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11317198
Reported findings of elevated risk of adverse events associated with calcium channel blocker use in hypertensives may be due partly to unmeasured confounding by indication. To determine if such confounding occurs, we conducted a retrospective cohort analysis of 77 196 Pennsylvania Medicaid recipients aged 18 to 61 who were treated with antihypertensive medication between 1990 and 1992. All diagnoses and dispensed prescriptions during the year prior to study entry were examined. Prior recipients of multitherapy (n = 18 763) were more likely to have had previously diagnosed risk factors (OR = 1.31 [95% CI, 1.30-1.33]) than subjects with prior monotherapy (n = 11141). New initiators (n = 47292) were less likely to have had previously diagnosed risk factors (OR = 0.48 (95% CI, 0.47-0.49)) than previous users (n = 29904). The likelihood of being prescribed calcium channel blocker rather than other monotherapy was significantly higher for subjects diagnosed during the previous week with arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease OR = 7.78 (95% CI, 2.72-22.28), P < 0.0001; angina OR = 2.92 (95% CI, 1.77-4.83), (P < 0.0001); diabetes OR = 1.49 (95% CI, 1.07-2.06), (P = 0.0004); and hypertension OR = 1.57 (95% CI 1.35-1.82), (P < 0.0001). Calcium channel blockers were selectively prescribed to subjects at elevated risk of adverse events. Confounding by indication was found in this large indigent population. Unmeasured confounding may contribute to overestimated relative risk of adverse events associated with calcium channel blocker therapy vs diuretics or beta-blockers. At least 1 full year of subjects' medical and prescription drug history should be examined prior to study entry; shorter observation periods will miss clinically relevant information about risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11321866
The objective of this analysis was to assess the cost-effectiveness of achieving 'tight control' versus 'less tight control' of blood pressure, as defined in the UK Prospective Diabetics Study 38, in type II diabetic patients in the UK and Italy. The effect of including doxazosin in a 'tight control' combination therapy was analysed. Given doxazosin's positive impact on lipid levels in addition to its antihypertensive effect, it is hypothesised that treatment including doxazosin will reduce the incidence of macrovascular complications. For each country, a Markov model was constructed to simulate macrovascular outcomes of patients on various drug combinations. Transitional probabilities were based on the risk rates presented in UKPDS 38. Risk rates were adjusted for the ageing of the cohort and the lipid-lowering properties of doxazosin using Framingham risk equations. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from 2224 Pounds to 4867 Pounds (US$3225-7057) per life-year saved for the UK and from L1.8-9.3 million (US$818-4159) per life-year saved for Italy. Doxazosin is a cost-effective agent when included in a combination therapy in the treatment of hypertension in the diabetic populations of the UK and Italy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11322860
Vasopressin (AVP) is a cyclic nonapeptide hormone that exhibits many physiological effects including free water reabsorption, vasoconstriction, cellular proliferation and adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) secretion. In a healthy organism, AVP plays an important role in the homeostasis of fluid osmolality and volume status. However, in several diseases or conditions such as the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of AVP (SIADH), congestive heart failure, arterial hypertension, liver cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, dysmenorrhoea and ocular hypertension, AVP may play an important role in their pathophysiology. Recently, orally-active non-peptide AVP receptor antagonists were developed by random screening of chemical entities and optimisation of lead compounds. These include agents specific for the V(1)-vascular and V(2)-renal AVP receptor subtypes. Dual V(1)/V(2) AVP receptor antagonists are also being studied. Some of these non-peptide receptor antagonists have been studied extensively, while others are currently under investigation. Potential therapeutic indications for AVP receptor antagonists comprise: 1) The blockade of V(1)-vascular AVP receptors in arterial hypertension, congestive heart failure, Raynaud's syndrome, peripheral vascular disease and dysmenorrhea. 2) The blockade of V(2)-renal AVP receptors in the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of vasopressin, congestive hart failure, liver cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome and any state of excessive retention of free water and subsequent dilutional hyponatraemia. 3) The blockade of V(3)-pituitary AVP receptors in ACTH-secreting tumours. This review examines the pharmacology of orally-active non-peptide AVP receptor antagonists and their clinical applications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11323582
Endoscopic treatment of esophageal varices may accentuate portal hypertensive gastropathy. The impact of the combination of band ligation and propranolol on this condition remains unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11324243
Migraine is approximately three times more common in women than in men. Women tend to have longer attacks and are more likely than men to experience aura with migraine, but both sexes can experience frequent and severe attacks. Treatment principles for migraine and guidelines for the use of prophylactic and abortive therapies are generally consistent between males and females. However, due to hormonal changes induced in the female during menstruation, oral contraceptive use, pregnancy, and menopause, gender-specific therapeutic strategies are often necessary when treating migraine in females.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11324677
It has been conclusively established that treatment of hypertension in patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus will significantly reduce the incidence of stroke, heart failure and progression of diabetic complications. Beta-blockers are effective antihypertensive agents which, in long term studies, have proven beneficial in reducing important clinical end-points. However nonselective beta-blockers may have a negative effect on lipid profiles and contribute to hypoglycaemic unawareness, thus preventing their use in some patients with diabetes mellitus. The development of newer and more selective beta-blockers has overcome many of these problems. In addition, some of the newer agents have novel properties such as release of nitric oxide, which theoretically would make them more attractive in patients with diabetes mellitus. Overall, the adverse metabolic effects of beta-blockers do not appear to be important in clinical practice and these agents should no longer be contraindicated in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Their proven cardiovascular benefits would seem to easily tip the balance in favour of their use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11333166
One of the putative mechanisms for the salutary effects of beta-blockers in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) is their ability to improve autonomic dysfunction. However, patients with profound neurohumoral abnormalities derive little survival benefit from beta-blockers. The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the effect of beta-blockers on heart rate variability (HRV) in decompensated CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11333992
The benefits of angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers may be smaller in black patients than in patients of other races, but it is unknown whether race influences the response to carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11334653
Beta-blocker therapy is beneficial both after myocardial infarction and in mild, moderate and severe chronic heart failure. Recent sub-group analysis of the Goteborg Metoprolol Trial and the AIRE study confirm that patients receiving beta-blockers in the setting of post-MI heart failure fare better than patients not receiving this therapy. For all these reasons the CAPRICORN trial of carvedilol in post-MI LV dysfunction was an important and eagerly awaited trial. The results were presented for the first time at The American College of Cardiology on March 20 2001. CAPRICORN randomised 984 patients to placebo and 975 to carvedilol between 3 and 21 days (mean 10) after a confirmed MI. Patients had to have evidence of a left ventricular ejection fraction 40% or less. All patients had received ACEI therapy for at least 48 hours prior to randomisation. The mean ejection fraction of the patients recruited was 32.7% in the placebo group and 32.9% in the carvedilol group. Follow-up was for a mean of 15 months (maximum 2.7 years). All cause mortality was 15.3% (151 deaths) in the placebo group and 11.9% (116 deaths) in the carvedilol group, giving a hazard ratio of 0.77 (0.60-0.98) and a significance of p = 0.031. And yet this agent will probably not be given a licence for this indication in the European Union and the USA. The reason is one of trial design and statistical declarations. Some way into the trial the Steering Committee decided to change the primary end-point form all-cause mortality to two co-primary end-points and to allocate their alpha power of 0.05 unevenly between the combined end-points of all cause mortality and cardiovascular hospitalisation (alpha 0.045) and all cause mortality (alpha 0.005). In the end neither was achieved, one because of the large number of non-specific hospitalisations for chest pain and the mortality effect because it was allocated a punitive and unachievable target of p < 0.005. The trial is thus officially neutral despite showing convincing clinical benefit. Clearly arcane matters of statistical plans do matter and steering committees should think very carefully before changing the primary end-points of major trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11345386
Carvedilol reduces disease progression in heart failure, but to our knowledge, its effects on hospitalizations and costs have not been evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11356434
The beneficial effects of beta-blockers on long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction were shown before the introduction of thrombolysis and angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Generally, the patients recruited to these trials were at low risk: few had heart failure, and none had measurements of left-ventricular function taken. We investigated the long-term efficacy of carvedilol on morbidity and mortality in patients with left-ventricular dysfunction after acute myocardial infarction treated according to current evidence-based practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11357013
Results of the studies published or reported within the last 2 years provide convincing evidence that beta-blockers can decrease mortality in patients with chronic symptomatic heart failure because of left ventricular systolic dysfunction. The Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study (CIBIS)-II and Metoprolol CR/XL Randomised Intervention Trial in Congestive Heart Failure (MERIT-HF) trials showed a 34% reduction in all-cause death with bisoprolol and metoprolol therapy in patients with class II-III heart failure. Data from Carvedilol Prospective Randomized Cumulative Survival (COPERNICUS), with a 35% mortality reduction, extended this benefit to class IV patients treated with carvedilol who do not require intravenous diuretics or positive inotropes. Ongoing beta-blocker studies address new topics, such as treatment of older patients, in whom diastolic heart failure may be more common, and direct comparison of different drugs. Although the use of beta-blockers for heart failure tends to increase, implementation of the knowledge from the trials in clinical practice still remains a challenge.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11368286
Levosimendan, a pyridazinone-dinitrile derivative, is a calcium sensitiser with additional action on adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channels. It is used intravenously (IV) for the treatment of decompensated cardiac failure. At therapeutic doses, levosimendan exhibits enhanced contractility with no increase in oxygen demands. It also produces antistunning effects without increasing myocardial intracellular calcium concentrations or prolonging myocardial relaxation. Levosimendan also causes coronary and systemic vasodilation. In patients with decompensated congestive heart failure (CHF), IV levosimendan significantly reduced the incidence of worsening CHF or death. IV levosimendan significantly increased cardiac output or cardiac index and decreased filling pressure in the acute treatment of stable or decompensated CHF in large, double-blind, randomised trials and after cardiac surgery in smaller trials. Levosimendan is well tolerated, with the most common adverse events (headache, hypotension, nausea) being secondary to vasodilation. It has not been shown to be arrhythmogenic. Levosimendan has shown no clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with captopril, felodipine, beta-blockers, digoxin, warfarin, isosorbide-5-mononitrate, carvedilol, alcohol (ethanol) or itraconazole.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11376302
Both metoprolol and carvedilol improve cardiac function and prolong survival in patients with heart failure. Carvedilol has broader antiadrenergic effects than metoprolol, but it is not clear whether this characteristic is associated with greater benefits on cardiac function during long-term treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11378004
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11378005
To evaluate prospectively the impact of carvedilol on a short-term physical training program in stable patients with moderate chronic heart failure (CHF), and to analyze parameters predictive of improvement after training.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11378006
Metoprolol is a beta(1)-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist while carvedilol is a non-selective beta-blocker with additional blockades of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. Administration of metoprolol has been shown to cause up-regulation of beta-adrenoceptor density and to decrease nocturnal melatonin release, whereas carvedilol lacks these typical effects of beta-blocking drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11378007
Heart failure is a common condition that carries a high burden of mortality and morbidity. Several randomised trials have evaluated the effects of beta blockers in heart failure. This paper gives a systematic overview of published randomised trials of beta blockers in heart failure using standard methods. In all, 22 randomised controlled trials were identified with a total of 10480 patients, and an average of 11 months of treatment. The average age was 61 years and 4% were female. Most studies excluded patients with severe heart failure. Death rates in patients randomised to receive beta blockers compared to controls were 458/5657 (8.0%) and 635/4951 (12.8%) respectively, odds ratio 0.63, 95% CI 0.55-0.72, P<0.00001. Similar reductions were observed for hospital admissions for worsening heart failure (11.3 vs. 17.1%, respectively, odds ratio 0.63) and for the composite outcome of death or heart-failure hospital admission (19.4 vs. 26.9%, respectively, odds ratio 0.66). These results show that beta blockers reduce the risk of mortality or the need for heart-failure hospital admission by approximately one third. Absolute reductions of 5-6% in event rates were observed over approximately 1 year of treatment period. These important benefits should be implemented as a priority, since treatment with beta blockers is inexpensive and heart failure carries a high risk of death and disability. Further information on the effect of beta blockers in elderly patients and women would be helpful.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11378009
Aims: This study considers the cost-effectiveness of bisoprolol in heart failure patients as an adjunctive therapy to usual treatment. Methods and results: A cost-effectiveness model was constructed using data available from the CIBIS I & II trials and other secondary sources. Differences in patient survival rates were calculated for bisoprolol (n=1327) and placebo groups (n=1320) extrapolating data over a 5-year period, under limited and extended benefits scenarios to calculate life years gained (LYG). Hospitalisation rates were calculated using data from both CIBIS trials. Costs were considered under two different patient management protocols for treatment initiation - shared care by outpatient clinics and GPs and initiation by a nurse working in the community. Discounted LYG were calculated to be 0.228 under the limited benefits scenario and 0.368 under the extended benefits scenario. Under the extended benefits scenario shared care resulted in a cost of pound268 per LYG or pound412 per LYG for community initiation. Under the limited benefits scenario the costs were a pound135 saving and pound69, respectively. Conclusion: This analysis has shown bisoprolol to be an economically attractive therapy in comparison with other treatments. It is hoped that its adoption by clinicians will be rapid, despite the labour intensive and time consuming up-titration process involved in its initiation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11378011
Beta-blockers without partial agonist activity are now considered to be strategic therapy for patients with chronic heart failure, but many issues remain to be clarified. The objective of the double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled cardiac insufficiency talinolol study (CITAS) is to assess efficacy and safety of talinolol - a selective beta-1 adrenoreceptor blocker - in patients with ischemic and non-ischemic heart failure. The primary end-point refers to the influence of talinolol on exercise capacity, evaluated by 6-min walking-test. Secondary end-points consist of left ventricular function, cardiovascular and all-cause mortality, hospitalizations, quality of life, combined clinical end-points and adverse events. There were enrolled 294 patients with stable heart failure in NYHA class II-IV, LVEF <40%, receiving diuretics, ACE-inhibitors and optionally nitrates and digoxin. Talinolol was titrated up to 100 mg/day (one arm) or to 150 mg/d (the other arm), starting with 12.5 mg daily. Enrollment began in November 1997 and the last visit will be in December 2000.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11378012
This is a synopsis of presentations made at the American College of Cardiology (ACC) in 2001 summarising recent research developments relating to heart failure. Clinical studies of particular interest to physicians with an interest in heart failure and its prevention are reviewed. The COPERNICUS trial lends further support to the use of the beta-blocker, carvedilol, in severe heart failure and the CAPRICORN trial to its use in patients with post-infarction left ventricular systolic dysfunction. The MIRACLE study reinforces the evidence from three smaller trials that cardiac resynchronisation therapy is an effective treatment for the relief of symptoms in patients with severe heart failure and cardiac dyssynchrony. The STAF trial casts further doubt on the wisdom of cardioversion as a routine strategy for the management of chronic atrial fibrillation. The RITZ-2 trial suggests that an intravenous, non-selective endothelin antagonist is effective in improving haemodynamics and symptoms and possibly in reducing morbidity in severe heart failure. Observational studies in heart failure suggest that a moderate excess of body fat and elevated blood cholesterol may be desirable in patients with heart failure, challenging the current non-evidenced-based vogue for cholesterol lowering therapy in heart failure. The RENAISSANCE and RECOVER outcome studies of etanercept, a tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptor analogue that blocks the effect of TNF, were stopped because of lack of evidence of benefit shortly after the ACC.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11386263
Beta-blocking agents reduce the risk of hospitalization and death in patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure, but little is known about their effects in severe heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11386264
Although beta-adrenergic-receptor antagonists reduce morbidity and mortality in patients with mild-to-moderate chronic heart failure, their effect on survival in patients with more advanced heart failure is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11386927
Incidence of end-stage renal disease due to hypertension has increased in recent decades, but the optimal strategy for treatment of hypertension to prevent renal failure is unknown, especially among African Americans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11395222
Isolated systolic hypertension affects over 15% of all people older than 60 years. In the elderly, systolic hypertension is a major modifiable cardiovascular risk factor. Systolic blood pressure is associated with higher risk of an adverse outcome, whereas diastolic blood pressure is inversely correlated with total mortality, independent of systolic blood pressure, highlighting the role of pulse pressure as risk factor. Three placebo-controlled outcome trials on antihypertensive drug treatment in older patients with isolated systolic hypertension have been published: the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP), the Systolic Hypertension in Europe (Syst-Eur) Trial and the Systolic Hypertension in China (Syst-China) Trial. These three trials demonstrated the benefit of antihypertensive drug treatment. A meta-analysis was performed by pooling the patients from these three trials with a subset of patients with isolated systolic hypertension from five other trials in the elderly. Antihypertensive treatment based on a calcium-channel blocker may provide additional benefits in diabetic patients and in the prevention of dementia and renal dysfunction. The pooled results of 15693 older patients with isolated systolic hypertension prove that antihypertensive drug treatment is justified if on repeated clinic measurements systolic blood pressure is 160 mmHg or higher.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11396760
Despite the recognized efficacy of sclerotherapy and elastic band ligation in controlling variceal hemorrhage, the results of endoscopic treatment in Child-Pugh class C patients remain poor. The aim of this prospective, controlled, and randomized study was to compare conventional sclerotherapy with injection of the tissue adhesive N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate in controlling the first episode of rupturing of esophageal varices.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11399339
One of the putative mechanisms for the salutary effects of beta-blockers in patients with congestive heart failure is their ability to improve autonomic dysfunction. However, patients with profound neurohumoral abnormalities derive little survival benefit from beta-blockers. The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the effect of beta-blockers on heart rate variability in decompensated heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11401110
This is a randomized controlled study of anemic patients with severe congestive heart failure (CHF) to assess the effect of correction of the anemia on cardiac and renal function and hospitalization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11401111
We sought to assess plasma concentrations of the amino (N)-terminal portion of pro-brain natriuretic peptide (N-BNP) and adrenomedullin for prediction of adverse outcomes and responses to treatment in 297 patients with ischemic left ventricular (LV) dysfunction who were randomly assigned to receive carvedilol or placebo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11401736
The researchers reviewed published clinical trials and performed a meta-analysis to assess if therapy with adrenergic beta-antagonists (beta-blockers) reduces the risk of mortality in patients with systolic dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11402910
Lack of efficacy in the treatment of hypertension with only one drug presents a problem in general practice and often requires switching to another type of drug, because higher dosage of currently used antihypertensives increases the frequency of side effects. Angiotensin II antagonists are well tolerated and there is no evidence of dose-related increase in side effects. This study in 574 hypertensives under therapy with ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers was undertaken to determine whether direct switching to the Angiotensin II-antagonist candesartan cilexetil at its maximal dose of 16 mg is as effective and tolerable as starting therapy with candesartan cilexetil 8 mg followed by up-titration to 16 mg after 4 weeks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11403364
To test the primary hypothesis that a newer antihypertensive treatment regimen (calcium channel blocker +/- an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor) is more effective than an older regimen (beta-blocker +/- a diuretic) in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD). To test a second primary hypothesis that a statin compared with placebo will further protect against CHD endpoints in hypertensive subjects with a total cholesterol < or = 6.5 mmol/l.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11403367
The Swedish irbesartan left ventricular hypertrophy investigation versus atenolol (SILVHIA).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11409070
After briefly reviewing the alterations of sympathetic nervous system in congestive heart failure and the possible ways of its pharmacological management, we review the present data regarding the use of blocking drugs in major trials (USCP, CIBIS and MERIT-HF). beta blocking drugs have a top and unquestionable role in the therapy of congestive heart failure; we conclude with a few practical rules about their use in this syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11410575
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11413085
Common carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT) progression was compared between 4 years of treatment with nifedipine and diuretic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11416689
This report updates the 1990 National High Blood Pressure Education Program Working Group Report on High Blood Pressure in Pregnancy and focuses on classification, pathophysiology, and management of the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. Using evidence-based medicine and consensus, this report updates contemporary approaches to hypertension control during pregnancy by expanding on recommendations made in the Sixth Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC VI). The recommendations to use K5 for determining diastolic pressure and to eliminate edema as a criterion for diagnosing pre-eclampsia are discussed. In addition, the use of blood pressure increases of 30 mm Hg systolic or 15 mm Hg diastolic as a diagnostic criterion has not been recommended, as available evidence shows that women in this group are not likely to suffer increased adverse outcomes. Management considerations are made between chronic hypertension that is present before pregnancy and those occurring as part of the pregnancy-specific condition preeclampsia, as well as management considerations in women with comorbid conditions. A discussion of the pharmacologic treatment of hypertension in pregnancy includes recommendations for specific agents. The use of low-dose aspirin, calcium, or other dietary supplements in the prevention of pre-eclampsia is described, and expanded sections on counseling women for future pregnancies and recommendations for future research are included. Once again we thank Dr. Ray Gifford, Jr., and his committee for volunteering their time to produce this important report. We hope it helps the busy clinician prevent and manage a very important problem.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11416704
Early clinical studies revealed that timolol and other topical beta blockers were effective in reducing intra-ocular pressure, without the side effects associated with other antiglaucoma agents. However, because persons with cardiovascular or respiratory diseases were generally excluded from many of these early studies, the risk of serious cardiovascular and respiratory side effects was seriously underestimated. Once these drugs were made available to the general population, reports of systemic side effects began to proliferate. Very quickly, adverse effects from topical beta blockade became "old news." Despite this recognition, many treating physicians remained unaware of the potential for systemic beta blockade from topically applied beta blockers. A significant portion of a topically administered dose of a beta blocker can be absorbed and thereby affect systemic beta blockade. Sensitivity to systemic beta blockade can be quite dramatic in certain highly susceptible patients, particularly those with either cardiac or pulmonary abnormalities. Careful review of patients' medications will generally lessen, but not completely eliminate, the risk of undesired complications attributable to topical beta blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11419108
Until recently no morbidity-mortality study had examined the effects of newer drugs like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium-antagonists and alpha-blockers compared to "old" but well-proven thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers in the treatment of essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11422094
This study was a multinational, multicentre, double-blind, active controlled phase III trial designed to investigate efficacy and safety of 300 mg acetylsalicyclic acid (ASA) (n = 135) vs. 200 mg metoprolol (n = 135) in the prophylaxis of migraine. In total 270 (51 male and 219 female) patients, aged 18-65 years, suffering between two and six migraine attacks per month were recruited. The main objective was to show equivalence with respect to efficacy, defined as a 50% reduction in the rate of migraine attacks. A run-in phase was carried out with placebo for 4 weeks, followed by a 16-week drug phase. In both treatment groups the median frequency of migraine attacks improved during the study period, from three to two in the ASA group and from three to one in the metoprolol group; 45.2% of all metoprolol patients were responders compared with 29.6% with ASA. Medication-related adverse events were less frequent in the ASA group (37) than in the metoprolol group (73). The findings from this trial show that metoprolol is superior to ASA for migraine prophylaxis but has more side-effects. Acetylsalicylic acid is better tolerated than metoprolol. Using a strict responder criterion ASA showed a responder rate comparable with the placebo rate in the literature.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11423055
Ventricular arrhythmias are common in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) and may be exacerbated by positive inotropic therapy. Because human B-type natriuretic peptide (nesiritide), an arterial and venodilator, inhibits sympathetic activity, it may decrease the incidence of arrhythmias. Our investigation compares the arrhythmogenicity of dobutamine with nesiritide. A total of 305 patients with decompensated CHF requiring intravenous vasoactive therapy were randomized to receive standard therapy (n = 102) or nesiritide (0.015 microg/kg/min [n = 103] or 0.030 microg/kg/min [n = 100]) to gain additional data on the relative safety and efficacy of nesiritide compared with standard parenteral care. Dobutamine was chosen as the standard care agent in 58 subjects. During study drug infusion, all patients had continuous clinical hemodynamic and electrocardiographic monitoring. The dobutamine and nesiritide groups were similar with respect to baseline use of antiarrhythmic agents, including beta blockers. Serious arrhythmias and the incidence of cardiac arrest were more common in patients who received dobutamine than in those taking nesiritide: sustained ventricular tachycardia, 4 (7%) versus 2 (1%), respectively (p = 0.014); nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, 10 (17%) versus 23 (11%), respectively (p = 0.029); cardiac arrest, 3 (5%) versus 0, respectively (p = 0.011). We conclude that among patients with decompensated CHF for whom dobutamine is selected as standard therapy, the incidence of serious ventricular arrhythmias and cardiac arrest is significantly greater than the incidence of these events in patients randomized to nesiritide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11423717
Beta-blocker therapy is used to decrease myocardial ischemia during exercise but may cause suboptimal diagnostic performance in exercise stress testing. The aim of the present study was to compare results of quantitative technetium-99-sestamibi single photon emission tomography (SPECT), following exercise stress test or pharmacological stress test with adenosine. We chose adenosine as comparison, since betablockers may not interfere with adenosine induced vasodilatation and therefore possibly may not interfere with its diagnostic performance. Sixteen patients with angiographically documented coronary disease (5 single-vessel, 6 two-vessel and 5 three-vessel disease), who were chronically treated with beta-blockers, performed SPECT imaging at rest, following bicycle exercise and following adenosine infusion in random order. The SPECT data were analyzed visually and quantitatively, using dedicated computer software (CEqual). According to both visual and quantitative SPECT analysis, adenosine was superior to show reversibility. Higher reversibility extent (50 +/- 15 vs. 26 +/- 12 pixels, p < 0.01) and more intense reversibility severity (110 +/- 29 vs. 49 +/- 23 sum of SDs, p < 0.05) were observed during adenosine than exercise. Conclusions: Less myocardial perfusion abnormalities during exercise than during adenosine stress in patients treated with beta-blockers may indicate less ischemia but also an impaired diagnostic performance. Thus adenosine stress test should be preferred to optimize the diagnostic sensitivity in patients during beta-blocker treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11426017
To compare the systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients entered into the d-penicillamine trial with SSc patients entered into previous controlled SSc trials. It was hypothesized that the d-penicillamine trial patients, who conformed to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) guidelines for clinical trials in SSc were different from patients entered into previous trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11428837
Beta-blockers, used as an adjunctive to diuretics, digoxin and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, improve survival in chronic heart failure. We report a prospectively planned economic analysis of the cost of adjunctive beta-blocker therapy in the second Cardiac Insufficiency BIsoprolol Study (CIBIS II).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11430179
This article reviews some of the salient points in the management of hypertension as recommended by the "Sixth Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure." New developments since publication of this 1997 report are also discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11430394
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11433884
Beta-blockers have been shown to improve prognosis in patients with heart failure (HF). Propranolol, which is a low-cost drug, has not been fully studied in this setting. We sought to determine the safety, tolerability and effects on left ventricular function observed with the use of propranolol in HF patients, in functional class II-IV of the New York Heart Association.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11434453
Bamidipine is an antihypertensive drug belonging to the dihydropyridine (DHP) group of calcium antagonists. It is available in a modified-release formulation which has a gradual onset of action and is effective in a single daily oral dose of 10 to 20 mg. Bamidipine has selective action against cardiovascular calcium antagonist receptors and its antihypertensive action is related to the reduction of peripheral vascular resistance secondary to its vasodilatory action. The clinical antihypertensive efficacy of barnidipine is similar to that of other DHP calcium antagonists such as nitrendipine and amlodipine, and antihypertensives belonging to other drug classes such as atenolol and enalapril. Barnidipine has been found to be as efficacious and well tolerated as hydrochlorothiazide in the management of hypertension in elderly patients. Barnidipine is generally well tolerated. As with other DHP calcium antagonists, vasodilator adverse events such as headache, flushing and peripheral oedema account for most of the adverse events reported with its use and are usually transient. Oedema is less frequent than with amlodipine and nitrendipine. Its use is not associated with reflex tachycardia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11435332
Coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality continued to decline from 1985 to 1997.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11435335
Previous studies have shown disappointing results for immunosuppressive treatment in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Therefore, we studied the effectiveness of such therapy in patients with HLA upregulation on biopsy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11435337
This clinical investigation was performed to compare the effects of permanent dual-chamber cardiac pacing with pharmacological therapy in patients with recurrent vasovagal syncope.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11435745
To study the influence of different maternal factors, including antihypertensive medication, on the outcome of pregnancy in primi- and multiparas with pregnancy-associated hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11441320
Benefits of aspirin and beta-blocker use in patients with coronary artery disease and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in those with left ventricular systolic dysfunction are well documented in all age groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11444579
To compare antihypertensive drug compliance with treatment guidelines established by the Sixth Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC VI), and to identify patient adherence to antihypertensive drugs and factors affecting prescribing patterns.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11453892
Patients with migraine may receive the 5-HT1B/1D agonist, rizatriptan (5 or 10 mg), to control acute attacks. Patients with frequent attacks may also receive propranolol or other beta-adrenoceptor antagonists for migraine prophylaxis. The present studies investigated the potential for pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction between beta-adrenoceptor blockers and rizatriptan.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11461738
Infants with congenital heart disease and left-to-right shunts may develop significant clinical symptoms of congestive heart failure in spite of therapy with digoxin and diuretics. We investigated the effects of beta-blockade in infants with severe heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11465647
Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in hypertensive subjects is associated with an increased prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias. To evaluate the effect of antihypertensive treatment on cardiac arrhythmias (CA) and transient episodes of myocardial ischemia (TEMI), we studied 46 hypertensive patients with LVH, divided into four groups randomly treated with enalapril, hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), atenolol, or verapamil (SR-V) for 6 months. Office blood pressure and office heart rate values were recorded, in basal conditions, after 1 and 6 months of treatment, and all patients underwent echocardiography, electrocardiographic Holter monitoring, and stress testing. All drugs significantly lowered blood pressure, whereas left ventricular mass index was reduced by atenolol, enalapril, and SR-V, but not by HCTZ. Treatment induced a significant reduction in the number of patients with supraventricular arrhythmias (35 v 15, P < .034, and 28 v 8, excluding patients treated with HCTZ, P < .008). The number of patients with ventricular arrhythmias was also reduced (32 v 16 considering all groups, P < .08, and 24 v 9, excluding patients treated with HCTZ, P < .04). The number of TEMI during Holter monitoring significantly decreased from 47 to 23 (P = .043) in all patients, and from 39 to 14 (P = .013) excluding patients treated with HCTZ. In all groups, irrespective of treatment, a reduction of blood pressure, heart rate, and systolic blood pressure/heart rate product measured by exercise stress test was observed. The present study shows that in hypertensive patients with LVH, antihypertensive treatment with atenolol, enalapril and SR-V reduces LVH and decreases the prevalence of CA and TEMI. Treatment with HCTZ during the 6-month study did not alter LVH and did not appear to reduce CA and TEMI.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11465655
The purpose of this study was to determine the contribution of the adrenergic system in mediating hypertension in obese and lean patients. Thirteen obese, hypertensive patients with a body mass index (BMI) > or =28 kg/m2 (obese) and nine lean patients with a BMI < or =25 kg/m2 (lean) were recruited. After a 1-week washout period, participants underwent daytime ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM). Participants were then treated with the alpha-adrenergic antagonist doxazosin, titrating to 4 mg QHS in 1 week. In the next week, the beta-adrenergic antagonist atenolol was added at an initial dose of 25 mg/day and titrated to 50 mg/day within 1 week. One month after the addition of atenolol, all patients underwent a second ABPM session. There were no differences between the obese and lean subjects in baseline systolic (SBP), diastolic (DBP), or mean arterial pressures (MAP) measured by office recording or ABPM. However, obese subjects had higher heart rates than lean subjects (87.5+/-2.4 v 76.8+/-4.9 beats/min). After 1 month of treatment with the adrenergic blockers, obese patients had a significantly lower SBP (130.0+/-2.5 v 138.9+/-2.1 mm Hg, P = .02) and MAP (99.6+/-2.3 v 107.0+/-1.5 mm Hg, P = .02) than lean patients. Obese patients also tended to have a lower DBP than lean patients (84.3+/-2.5 v 90.9+/-1.6 mm Hg, P = .057), but there was no significant difference in heart rate after 1 month of adrenergic blockade. These results indicate that blood pressure is more sensitive to adrenergic blockade in obese than in lean hypertensive patients and suggest that increased sympathetic activity may be an important factor in the maintenance of hypertension in obesity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11465878
The fixed low-dose combination of the ACE inhibitor perindopril and the non-thiazide diuretic indapamide has been evaluated in the management of patients with mild to moderate hypertension. Combination therapy aims to improve overall therapeutic efficacy while minimising adverse effects. In well-designed multicentre clinical trials, perindopril/indapamide at doses ranging from 2/0.625 to 8/2.5 mg/day was significantly more effective than placebo in achieving adequate blood pressure (BP) control. A similar reduction in supine BP was observed when combined perindopril/indapamide 2/0.625 mg/day was compared with losartan 50 mg/day or atenolol 50 mg/day. Similar reductions in 24-hour ambulatory BP were also seen with perindopril/indapamide 2/0.625 mg/day and irbesartan 150 mg/day. However, response and normalisation rates were significantly higher with combination therapy than with losartan or irbesartan monotherapy. Combined perindopril/indapamide 2/0.625 mg/day therapy effectively reduced BP in elderly patients aged 65 to 85 years to a significantly greater extent than either atenolol 50 mg/day or placebo. Supine BP was also normalised in approximately two-thirds of patients in a small noncomparative trial in patients with hypertension and renal impairment. Low-dose perindopril/indapamide 2/0.625 mg/day was well tolerated in clinical trials; the most common adverse events were headache and cough. Hypokalaemia, associated with the use of diuretics, occurred with a higher incidence with combined perindopril/indapamide 2/0.625 mg/day therapy than with either atenolol 50 mg/day or placebo. Perindopril/indapamide 2/0.625 mg/day has shown efficacy in well designed comparative trials with atenolol, losartan and irbesartan including elderly patients and patients with renal impairment. Studies comparing this dosage of perindopril/ indapamide with other combination therapies would be beneficial in allowing the place of perindopril/indapamide to be more accurately determined. The fixed-low dose combination of perindopril/indapamide provides a promising and well tolerated treatment option in the management of patients with mild to moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11465967
To assess the relationship between antihypertensive therapy and malignancy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11465968
To assess the long-term cardioprotective effect of bisoprolol in a randomized high-risk population after successful major vascular surgery. High-risk patients were defined by the presence of one or more cardiac risk factor(s) and a dobutamine echocardiography test positive for ischaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11466259
To evaluate the comparative efficacy and tolerance of latanoprost versus timolol through a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11467759
Angiotensin II and insulin have been suggested to promote the development of hypertensive left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy. We compared the effects of captopril and metoprolol on the regression of LV mass and the relation to insulin sensitivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11467761
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11468019
Heart failure treatment has markedly changed during the last few decades, with demonstration of benefit of afterload reduction by vasodilator therapy and introduction of the concept of the deleterious consequences of the neuro-hormonal compensatory stimulation. Blockade of beta-adrenergic receptors, initially contra-indicated in heart failure, provide a marked reduction of mortality and morbidity in combination with diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, as demonstrated in many clinical trials. We performed a review of all clinical trials that compare beta-blockers vs. placebo in chronic heart failure. Beta-blockers with different pharmacological profiles have been tested, mainly metoprolol, bisoprolol, bucindolol and carvedilol. With progressive dose increment, tolerance of such treatment was generally good, left ventricular function improved, hospitalisations for heart failure were less frequent and mortality was reduced. The meta-analysis of the 16 randomised trials, with at least one death in each treatment group, provides a 24% relative risk reduction for such hospitalisations (95% CI=19%-29%) and 22% reduction for mortality (95% CI=16%-28%). Heterogeneity of beta-blocker effect for mortality was found and related to the non-significant benefit obtained in the BEST trial with bucindolol. When such a trial is excluded, the effect model analysis shows that relative risk reduction (beta-blocker induced benefit) is constant whatever the severity of the disease. The mechanism of beta-blocker induced benefit remains unclear, but is at least partly related to left ventricular function improvement and prevention of severe ventricular arrhythmias. In conclusion, beta-blocker treatment has become an established therapy for heart failure, in combination with diuretics and ACE inhibitors. Complementary informations will be needed to clarify the mechanism of benefit and to define the best therapeutic strategy according to the individual characteristics of patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11470011
Calcium channel blockers have come into worldwide use for treating hypertension and other circulatory disorders. In recent years, results of several observational studies have suggested that these drugs may not be as safe or effective as other available therapies, such as diuretics and beta-blockers, in the prevention of cardiovascular events. The Nordic Diltiazem (NORDIL) and the International Nifedipine GITS Study: Intervention as a Goal in Hypertension Treatment (INSIGHT) studies were the first two randomized interventional trials in hypertensive patients that directly compared the effects of therapy based on calcium antagonists with those of diuretic and beta-blocker-based treatment on major cardiovascular endpoints. Both studies found that the effectiveness of calcium antagonist therapy was similar to that of diuretic and beta-blocker therapy for preventing the composite primary endpoint of fatal and nonfatal stroke, myocardial infarction, and other cardiovascular death. The two studies shared several nonsignificant trends for cause-specific events, including greater stroke prevention and lesser coronary event prevention in the calcium antagonist groups compared with the diuretic and beta-blocker groups. There is not yet sufficient evidence to prove whether cause-specific differences exist. Results of the NORDIL and INSIGHT studies support incorporating calcium antagonist-based therapy as an additional safe and effective approach for preventing blood pressure-related illness and death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11470017
Randomized trials have provided clear evidence of the beneficial effects of many different blood pressure-lowering regimens compared with placebo. The comparative effects of antihypertensive regimens based on different drug classes are less well established. The Blood Pressure Lowering Treatment Trialists' Collaboration conducted a series of prospectively designed overviews of randomized trials that compared the effects of different drug classes on major cause-specific outcomes. These overviews found no differences between the effects of regimens based on angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and those based on diuretics or b-blockers. There was limited evidence of small differences between regimens based on calcium antagonists and those based on diuretics or beta-blockers. The overviews of regimens based on calcium antagonists compared with those based on angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors recorded too few events to provide reliable findings. Over the next few years, the findings of ongoing trials and future cycles of overview analyses conducted by the Collaboration should substantially add to these data.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11472461
To compare the net cost of a tight blood pressure control policy with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril) or beta blocker (atenolol) in patients with Type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11477813
To study the effect of purified Xuefu Capsule (PXFC) in treating angina pectoris (AP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11479245
Vascular endothelial dysfunction may predict future atherosclerosis. Hence, an antihypertensive agent that reverses endothelial dysfunction and lowers blood pressure might improve the prognosis of patients with hypertension. We hypothesized that nebivolol, a vasodilating beta-blocker, could improve endothelial dysfunction. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the effects of nebivolol and atenolol on endothelial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11482924
The purpose of the study was to compare the efficacy and safety of sotalol and bisoprolol in the maintenance of sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11485131
To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of carvedilol, a beta-blocker that is approved for use in the US for the treatment of heart failure, based on data from Phase III clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11486156
We examined the effects of beta-blockers on the associations between heart rate and number of premature ventricular beats (PVBs) and on heart rate variability and myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary heart disease. After 2 weeks of run-in placebo treatment, 18 patients with coronary artery disease were randomized to a 7-day treatment with either propranolol (40 mg) three times a day or placebo. During run-in and after 7 days of treatment, patients underwent 24-hour Holter monitoring and exercise tests. We analyzed the 24-hour Holter recordings with customized software that computes the correlation between heart rate and occurrence of PVBs. We also computed spectral measures of heart rate variability on the same recordings. Propranolol caused a significant decrease in the log-transformed total number of PVBs recorded over 24 hours and during the day. The number of PVBs was much lower during the night than during the day both after placebo and after propranolol. There were no differences between the two treatments. During the day, there was a positive correlation between heart rate and the number of PVBs in all 18 patients. The mean correlation coefficients between heart rate and number of PVBs increased significantly after propranolol treatment both during the 24-hour monitoring (p < 0.05) and during the day (p < 0.05). The night-recorded correlation coefficients between heart rate and number of PVBs were not significantly different in the placebo versus propranolol group. Propranolol significantly increased the total power during the day. Placebo caused a significant decrease in the low-frequency band (LF) and a significant increase in the high-frequency band (HF) during the night compared with the day. During the day, propranolol significantly reduced LF power and increased HF power, with respect to placebo. After propranolol treatment, the values of LF and HF power during the day were comparable to those recorded at night. The LF/HF ratio decreased significantly after propranolol treatment with respect to placebo in the day and became similar to that recorded during sleep. Propranolol significantly reduced heart rate and systolic blood pressure at rest and at peak exercise and reduced signs of myocardial ischemia. Propranolol administration reduces PVBs in patients with coronary artery disease and severe ventricular arrhythmias possibly through an improvement of cardiac autonomic regulation and through anti-ischemic effects, antiarrhythmic effects, or both.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11487547
It has been suggested that losartan, an angiotensin II (A-II) type 1 receptor blocker, may have a pronounced portal pressure reducing effect, far greater than that of propranolol. This randomized controlled trial compared the hemodynamic and renal effects of continued 6-week administration of losartan (n = 25) vs. propranolol (n = 15) in portal hypertensive patients with cirrhosis treated endoscopically after a variceal bleeding episode.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11489654
We have recently shown that continuous coronary perfusion with warm blood enriched with the ultra-short acting beta-blocker Esmolol (ES) improves functional and structural myocardial protection during coronary artery surgery as compared with conventional cardioplegia (CP). The purpose of the present study was to compare both myocardial protection techniques in terms of patient outcome. We retrospectively analyzed the charts of 150 consecutive patients subjected to coronary artery surgery using the ES-technique; 150 patients matched for age, gender, preoperative left ventricular function, history of renal failure, and history of neurological symptoms undergoing surgery with conventional CP during the same time period served as control group. There were no significant differences between both groups with respect to perioperative myocardial infarction rate, need for positive inotropic medication, need for mechanical circulatory support, duration of mechanical ventilation, duration of intensive care unit stay, time of mobilization, postoperative renal failure, cardiac arrhythmias, neurological symptoms, infections or in-hospital mortality. ES-patients were less frequently readmitted to the intensive care unit (ES: 3/150; 2.2% [95% confidence interval: 0-4.2%] vs. CP: 13/150; 8.7% [4.2-13.2%]; P=0.010) and total hospital stay was shorter (ES: 12.3+/-4.8 days [95% CI: 11.5-13.0] vs CP: 13.5+/-3.8 [12.9-14.1] days; P=0.0013), thus saving 159 patient days on the normal ward. Procedural costs were less for the ES-technique (US$ 60 per patient) as compared to the cardioplegia technique (US$ 120 per patient). These data suggest that myocardial protection using the ES-technique does not improve clinical outcome in patients subjected to routine coronary artery surgery, but may save costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11493129
The benefits of continuous treatment of hypertension have been extensively documented in randomized controlled trials. However, clinical trials may not reflect actual drug use in the population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11498655
In September, 2000, the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases of the National Institutes of Health called an early halt to the amlodipine arm of the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK) trial after careful deliberation by an independent data and safety monitoring board. An interim analysis of the AASK at 3 years revealed a renoprotective effect of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril as compared to the dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (DHP-CCB) amlodipine in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency. This differential effect was independent of the blood pressure (BP) levels reached and was evident in proteinuric patients and suggestive in patients with baseline proteinuria < 300 mg/d, but was not conclusive. The AASK trial data suggest that DHP-CCBs should be used cautiously in the presence of mild to moderate renal insufficiency. Judgment should be reserved for the use of other CCBs, such as verapamil or diltiazem, since these are fundamentally different CCBs with the potential for a different impact on hypertensive nephrosclerosis. The blinded observation period for AASK will be completed at the end of September, 2001, at which time additional, clinically useful information is expected to become available. (c)2001 Le Jacq Communications, Inc.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11499735
The study assessed the relative predictive potency of neurohumoral factors in patients with advanced left ventricular (LV) dysfunction during neurohumoral blocking therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11500582
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is common after cardiac surgery and adds significant cost and morbidity. The use of prophylactic pacing strategies to prevent post-operative AF has been controversial. We previously performed a pilot study which suggested that the combination of beta-blockers and bi-atrial pacing (BAP) may reduce AF after cardiac surgery. We prospectively randomized 118 patients to continuous BAP for up to 96 hours post-operatively versus standard therapy. All patients were treated with beta-blockers as tolerated. Patients were paced in the AAI mode at a rate of 100 pulses per minute. The primary endpoint of the study was the occurrence of sustained AF (>10 minutes). There was a significant reduction in the incidence of AF in the BAP group among patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery with or without aortic valve replacement (35 % vs. 19 % AF; OR=0.38, 95 % CI 0.15, 0.93; p <0.05). Including patients undergoing isolated aortic valve surgery (n=7), there remained a strong trend toward a reduction of AF with pacing (no atrial pacing [NAP] vs. BAP; 35 % vs. 21 % AF; OR=0.48, 95 % CI 0.21, 1.11; p=0.08). Patients age 70 or greater benefited most from pacing (NAP vs. BAP; 55 vs. 25 % AF; p<0.05), while those less than 70 years of age did not (17 vs. 18 % p=NS). There was a significant reduction in the amount of time spent in the intensive care unit among patients receiving BAP (50+/-40 vs. 37+/-25 h; p<0.05).BAP together with beta-blockade after coronary artery bypass graft surgery reduces the incidence of post-operative atrial AF. Elderly patients (age 70 or greater) appear to benefit most, and may be a group to whom this therapy should be targeted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11503798
(1) Trimetazidine is licensed in France for the prevention of angina attacks and for symptomatic treatment of vertigo and tinnitus. (2) In angina the evidence on trimetazidine is sorely lacking. The only available comparative trial failed to show that trimetazidine monotherapy was even as good as low-dose propranolol. For want of appropriate assessment, it is not known if trimetazidine can reinforce the activity of betablockers, the reference treatment. (3) In symptomatic treatment of vertigo and tinnitus, the three available placebo-controlled trials show significant differences in favour of trimetazidine, but these differences are too small to be clinically relevant. (4) Data on the adverse effect profile of trimetazidine are virtually non existent. Gastrointestinal disorders and headache have been reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11504165
The aim of the study was to compare effect of perindopril (4 mg once a day) versus acebutolol (400 mg once a day) on cerebral hemodynamics in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11511429
Fourteen digitalised patients diagnosed with heart failure (NYHA Functional class II) with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in chronic established atrial fibrillation were administered carvedilol in addition to their anti-heart failure medications in an attempt to improve their heart rate control. Fourteen matched patients who did not receive carvedilol acted as control subjects. Patients treated with carvedilol showed significantly reduced resting heart rates (10-36%), maximal heart rates on exercise (5-20%) and an increased exercise time (2-30%) on treadmill stress tests (all P=0.001). Ventricular ectopic activity was also diminished. This was associated with symptomatic improvement in effort intolerance and palpitations. NYHA functional class, left ventricular dimensions and ejection fractions did not improve during the study period of 3 months. Thus, addition of carvedilol to digoxin had a beneficial effect on exercise tolerance in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in atrial fibrillation by virtue of an improved heart rate control both at rest and on exercise. Carvedilol was well tolerated despite impaired myocardial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11511433
Beta-blockade usually causes a slight reduction in exercise capacity among healthy subjects, while more variable results have been observed in chronic heart failure (CHF), probably related to patients studied, methods and agent used. The effect of metoprolol controlled release/extended release (CR/XL) on peak oxygen uptake (peak VO(2)) in this patient population has not previously been investigated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11511434
The beneficial effects of the beta-blocker bisoprolol on mortality and rate of hospitalisation as well as its safety in patients with chronic heart failure has been proven. However, its efficacy in patients in whom beta-blockers have traditionally been contraindicated or caution has been advised has not been clearly determined. Therefore, analyses in high-risk subgroups of patients taking part in CIBIS II have been performed to investigate the effect of bisoprolol in elderly patients, in patients with type 2 diabetes, with renal failure, NYHA functional class IV or concomitantly treated with digitalis, aldosterone antagonists or amiodarone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11511435
Cardiac resynchronisation is a promising new intervention for patients with heart failure, left ventricular systolic dysfunction and ventricular dyssynchrony.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11511438
Management of ambulatory heart failure was assessed in a group of 600 patients, mean age 73, 64% males, NYHA I: 9%; II: 52%; III: 33%; IV: 6%; followed up by a representative sample of private cardiologists. Fifty-two percent of patients had been previously hospitalised for worsening heart failure with a mean duration of stay of 13.1 days, for those hospitalised in the year preceding the survey (26%). First diagnosis of heart failure had been performed by a cardiologist (57%), a general practitioner (37%) or another category of physician (6%). Seventy percent of patients received three or more different classes of heart failure medications. Diuretics were prescribed to 71%, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors to 54% and digitalis to 35% of the population. Beta-blockers were given to only 14% of the patients. In patients aged over 80 years, only 45% received angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11518845
Essential hypertension is associated with impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation caused by oxygen free radical-induced nitric oxide (NO) breakdown. Since calcium antagonists can improve endothelial function in hypertensive patients, we tested whether this beneficial effect could be related to restoration of NO availability by antioxidant activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11518851
To compare the effects of nebivolol and atenolol in 25 ambulatory hypertensive patients with impaired glucose tolerance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11520524
Is cancer related to hypertension and blood pressure? Do antihypertensive drugs promote cancer? Do antihypertensive drugs protect against cancer? We previously analysed the frequency of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in elderly people who participated in the Swedish Trial in Old Patients with Hypertension 2 (STOP-Hypertension-2). We have also looked at the frequency of cancer in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11526364
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is present in a significant number of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) caused by left ventricular dysfunction and is associated with significant morbidity and increased mortality rates. Thus it is necessary to establish therapy to improve the outcome in this high-risk population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11526365
International placebo-controlled survival trials (Metoprolol Controlled-Release Randomised Intervention Trial in Heart Failure [MERIT-HF], Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study [CIBIS-II], and Carvedilol Prospective Randomized Cumulative Survival trial [COPERNICUS]) evaluating the effects of b-blockade in patients with heart failure have all demonstrated highly significant positive effects on total mortality as well as total mortality plus all-cause hospitalization. Also, the analysis of the US Carvedilol Program indicated an effect on these end points. Although none of these trials are large enough to provide definitive results in any particular subgroup, it is natural for physicians to examine the consistency of results across various subgroups or risk groups. Our purpose was to examine both predefined and post hoc subgroups in the MERIT-HF trial to provide guidance as to whether any subgroup is at increased risk, despite an overall strongly positive effect, and to discuss the difficulties and limitations in conducting such subgroup analyses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11526366
Carvedilol has been shown to improve morbidity and mortality in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). There are limited data of carvedilol use in patients on inotrope therapy. We present our experience with carvedilol titration in New York Heart Association (NYHA) class IIIb/IV patients stabilized on milrinone therapy, as a nonrandomized study with a parallel control group of patients never on inotropes. These patients achieved volume control and stabilization of their symptoms during the course of milrinone therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11527840
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11543734
It has been recently reported that the short variant of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene-linked functional polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) influences the antidepressant response to certain selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The aim of the present study was to test this finding in a sample of major and bipolar depressives, with or without psychotic features.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11547718
After an episode of acute bleeding from esophageal varices, patients are at high risk for recurrent bleeding and death. We compared two treatments to prevent recurrent bleeding--endoscopic ligation and combined medical therapy with nadolol and isosorbide mononitrate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11548874
Endothelium-dependent/nitric oxide (NO)-mediated vasodilation is impaired in hypertensive individuals. Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous inhibitor of NO synthase, is synthesized by many types of cells including vascular endothelial cells. The serum level of ADMA is elevated in patients with essential hypertension, but the mechanism for this increase is unknown. Therefore, the present study examined whether the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is involved. Patients with essential hypertension [systolic blood pressure (BP) > 160 mmHg and/or diastolic BP > 95 mmHg] were randomized to an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment group (perindopril, 4mg/day for 4 weeks, n = 7), an angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist treatment group (losartan, 50 mg/day for 4 weeks, n = 7) or a beta-blocker treatment group (bisoprolol, 5 mg/day for 4 weeks, n = 7). Before and after the treatment, BP, serum concentration of ADMA and plasma concentration of von Willebrand factor (vWF, a biological marker of endothelial injury) were measured. Perindopril, losartan and bisoprolol decreased BP to a similar extent, and either perindopril or losartan, but not bisoprolol, significantly decreased serum ADMA and plasma vWF. These findings suggest that the RAS may contribute to the mechanism of increased serum ADMA as well as to the endothelial injury observed in hypertensive patients. The vasculoprotective actions of ACE inhibitors or AT1 receptor antagonists may be explained at least in part by amelioration of the endothelial injury through a decrease in the serum ADMA concentration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11549204
The pharmacokinetic and dynamic interactions of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor imidapril with other therapeutic principles used in hypertension and heart failure were evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11551371
Meta-analysis has become a very popular tool to compare the efficacy of different antihypertensive regimens. Combining results from various outcome studies may provide evidence to guide the therapeutic approach even before results from large prospective studies are available. However, meta-analysis may be misleading if it is not done meticulously. Some meta-analyses that received broad news media coverage in the recent years were misleading. One analysis suggested that the use of short-acting nifedipine in moderate to high doses in patients with coronary disease increased mortality. This claim was refuted later by observational studies. Based on another meta-analysis, it was claimed that diuretics and beta-blockers are equally effective in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Another more careful meta-analysis, omitting one study in which most patients were on combination therapy and not on beta-blocker monotherapy, showed the superiority of diuretic versus b-blocker treatment in the elderly. Calcium antagonists were recently blamed for increasing the rate of myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure in hypertensive patients, and therefore their use was not recommended as first-line therapy in hypertension. This recommendation was based on a meta-analysis subject to major drawbacks and was misleading. Another notion based on meta-analysis was that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors reduce left ventricular mass more than diuretics. This notion was refuted by three large randomized studies. A recent meta-analysis, which showed a similar blood pressure lowering effect for all angiotensin receptor blockers, was refuted by head-to-head studies. Thus, when performed correctly, meta-analysis can be an important tool, but when uncritically employed, it is prone to be misleading.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11551875
The Prospective Randomized Enalapril Study Evaluating Regression of Ventricular Enlargement (PRESERVE) study was designed to test whether enalapril achieves greater left ventricular (LV) mass reduction than does a nifedipine gastrointestinal treatment system by a prognostically meaningful degree on a population basis (10 g/m(2)).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11558835
Telmisartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist that is highly selective for type 1 angiotensin II receptors. It was significantly more effective than placebo in large (n >100), double-blind, randomised, multicentre clinical trials in patients with mild to moderate hypertension. Telmisartan 20 to 160 mg once daily produced mean reductions in supine trough systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure of up to 15.5 and 10.5 mm Hg, respectively. Maximum blood pressure reduction occurred with a dosage of 40 to 80 mg/day. Telmisartan 40 to 120 mg/day was as effective as amlodipine 5 to 10 mg/day or atenolol 50 to 100 mg/day in dose-titration studies. Telmisartan 20 to 160 mg/day was generally similar in efficacy to enalapril 5 to 20 mg/day or lisinopril 10 to 40 mg/day in both titration-to-response and other studies. Hydrochlorothiazide was coadministered in most of the titration-to-response studies if patients remained hypertensive. Telmisartan 80 mg/day was more effective than submaximal dosages of losartan (50 mg/day) or valsartan (80 mg/day) and was as effective as a fixed-dose combination of losartan 50 mg plus hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg over the last 6 hours of the dosage interval and the whole 24-hour postdose interval. In patients with severe hypertension, telmisartan 80 to 160 mg/day was as effective as enalapril 20 to 40 mg/day (both agents could be titrated and combined sequentially with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg and amlodipine 5 mg). The addition of hydrochlorothiazide to telmisartan was more effective than each agent alone at lowering blood pressure in patients with hypertension. Telmisartan was well tolerated in patients with mild to moderate hypertension and was significantly less likely to cause persistent, dry cough than lisinopril. Conclusion: Telmisartan is an effective antihypertensive agent with a tolerability profile similar to that of placebo. Comparative data have shown telmisartan to be as effective as other major classes of antihypertensive agents at lowering blood pressure. Compared with lisinopril, telmisartan is associated with a significantly lower incidence of dry, persistent cough. Therefore, telmisartan is a useful therapeutic option in the management of patients with hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11558836
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11561225
Management of heart failure includes beta-blockade (betaB) therapy and cardiac rehabilitation. The aim of this study was to compare the exercise training response of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) receiving betaB therapy with that of patients not receiving treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11565518
Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease. Interruption of the renin-angiotensin system slows the progression of renal disease in patients with type 1 diabetes, but similar data are not available for patients with type 2, the most common form of diabetes. We assessed the role of the angiotensin-II-receptor antagonist losartan in patients with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11574896
Cardiovascular drugs are the most frequently prescribed class of drugs in Canada. Among them, drugs used to treat hypertension are the single largest component. Variability in how these drugs are prescribed should be based on the specific characteristics of patients. However, some evidence shows that physician characteristics can also play a substantial role in prescribing trends. Such variation is also associated with varying beneficial and adverse patient outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11576319
LDL-cholesterol particles from hypertensive patients exhibit enhanced susceptibility to in vitro oxidation, an abnormality thought to increase cardiovascular risk. We tested whether blood pressure (BP) normalization can reverse this abnormality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11579362
Our purpose was to evaluate the reliability, validity, and responsiveness of the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) in patients with heart failure (HF) enrolled in the Randomized Evaluation of Strategies for Left Ventricular Dysfunction (RESOLVD) pilot study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11579363
This study evaluated the independent and combined effects of captopril and carvedilol on left ventricular remodeling in chronic heart failure. Although angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and b-blockers are known to attenuate the remodeling process in chronic heart failure, a direct comparison of these agents has not been performed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11581535
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583861
This study analyzed the effect of the beta(1)-selective beta-blocker metoprolol succinate controlled release/extended release (CR/XL) once daily on mortality, hospitalizations and tolerability in patients with severe heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583862
This study investigates the effects of a change of beta-adrenergic blocking agent treatment from metoprolol to carvedilol and vice versa in patients with heart failure (HF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583866
This study was designed to determine whether patient characteristics collected at presentation can identify which patients benefit from immediate coronary angiography and revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11585103
The drug treatment of heart failure, once simple, has become complex. Apart from a loop diuretic and digoxin, most patients should now be receiving an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (or angiotensin II receptor blocker), a beta-blocker and spironolactone. Newer drugs, such as endothelin-receptor antagonists and combined blockers of converting-enzyme and neutral endopeptidase, might soon become available. When to introduce these drugs and what dose is optimal for any individual, are questions that currently vex clinicians. We proposed that plasma levels of the cardiac hormone brain natriuretic peptide (BNP, or better, its 1-76 amino-acid N-terminal fragment, N-BNP), would provide an objective index for guiding drug treatment in patients with established, stable cardiac failure. In a pilot study, 69 patients were randomized to drug treatment based on clinical criteria, or based on plasma levels of N-BNP. After a median follow-up of 9.6 months, those in the N-BNP group had fewer clinical end-points than those in the group managed by clinical criteria alone (19 vs 54; P= 0.02). These preliminary data encourage the concept that the increasingly complex pharmacotherapy for heart failure, both chronic (as in this trial) and acute, might best be guided by an objective measure such as plasma levels of BNP or N-BNP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11588403
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11589843
Sublingual (SL) apomorphine (2 to 6 mg) has been shown to be effective for treatment of male erectile dysfunction. Many patients with erectile dysfunction are also being treated for systemic hypertension and/or cardiovascular disease. In a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial, SL apomorphine 5 mg and placebo were administered on alternate days to 162 men who were on long-term therapy (> or =4 weeks) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, beta blockers, diuretics, calcium channel blockers, alpha(1) blockers, or short- or long-acting nitrates. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured before and after dosing; cardiac rhythm was recorded by 4-hour Holter monitoring. The only potentially clinically significant interactions between SL apomorphine and the antihypertensive agents or short-acting nitrates were greater orthostatic decreases in systolic blood pressure in the alpha-blocker and calcium channel blocker groups (-10 and -6 mm Hg vs placebo, respectively). Administration of SL apomorphine after dosing with long-acting nitrates resulted in significant decreases in blood pressure when patients were standing (mean systolic change, -5 to -9 mm Hg 30 to 60 minutes postdose, p <0.05; mean diastolic change, -3 to -4 mm Hg 50 to 60 minutes postdose, p <0.05). The most common adverse events with SL apomorphine were dizziness, nausea, and headache. Syncope occurred in 1 patient in the beta-blocker group; symptomatic hypotension occurred in 2 patients each in the short- and long-acting nitrate groups. Thus, in patients receiving common antihypertensive agents and short-acting nitrates, as well as in most patients receiving long-acting nitrates, SL apomorphine at higher than recommended doses produced no clinically significant changes in heart rate or blood pressure greater than changes seen with SL apomorphine alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11589866
This study evaluated the safety and intraocular pressure-lowering efficacy of two concentrations of travoprost (0.0015% and 0.004%) compared with latanoprost 0.005% and timolol 0.5% in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11593094
The Hypertension Optimal Treatment (HOT) study showed that when antihypertensive treatment reduces diastolic blood pressure well below 90 mmHg, there can be a further reduction of cardiovascular events, particularly myocardial infarction, with no evidence of a J-shaped curve at lower pressures. Office measurement, however, gives no information about blood pressure outside the office. This paper describes a HOT substudy in which patients underwent both office measurement and 24 h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11593098
To determine whether polymorphisms in the renin-angiotensin system can predict blood pressure-lowering response to antihypertensive treatment; more specifically, in response to treatment with irbesartan or atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11593101
To investigate if antihypertensive treatment could improve endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in hypertensive patients, and whether the angiotensin II subtype-1 (AT1)-receptor antagonist irbesartan and the beta1-receptor antagonist atenolol would differ in this respect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11593109
To investigate in a random comparison the capacity of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (fosinopril), and that of a long-acting dihydropiridine (nifedipine GITS) to modify the decay in renal function in patients with primary renal disease, exhibiting a progressive increase in serum creatinine during the previous 2 years.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11595610
Knowledge on clinical characteristics and prognosis of patients with heart failure originates from studies of selected populations in clinical trials or from epidemiological observations. Reports on the large numbers of patients with heart failure treated in community hospitals are sparse.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11595611
Congestive heart failure (CHF) is associated with a high readmission rate after diagnosis. We assessed the ability of a comprehensive management program (CMP) for CHF to reduce readmissions with secondary endpoints of improving quality of life, exercise capacity and targeted drug doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11595959
Hypertension is an important risk factor for erectile dysfunction (ED). Consequently, there is a high coincidence between hypertension and ED. Oral sildenafil (Viagra) is an effective treatment for ED in patients with treated or untreated hypertension. The most common adverse events of sildenafil (headache, flushing, hypotension) result from its moderate vasodilating properties. The concomitant use of sildenafil and organic nitrates is contraindicated because it may lead to a potentiation of the decreases in blood pressure and thus cause life-threatening hypotension. In contrast, the concomitant use of sildenafil and different classes of antihypertensive agents (beta-blockers, alpha-blockers, diuretics, ACE inhibitors, calcium antagonists) may lead to additive but not to potentiating blood pressure decreases. Thus, this combination is unlikely to cause clinically significant hypotension or an increased incidence of adverse events. Sildenafil is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for ED in patients taking concomitant antihypertensive medication, including those on multidrug regimens.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11601952
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11602495
Although present guidelines suggest that treatment of hypertension is more effective in patients with multiple risk factors and higher risk of cardiovascular events, this hypothesis was never verified in older patients with systolic hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11603173
Hypertension is one of the most important risk factors for ischaemic heart disease and stroke. The aim of our study was to assess the antihypertensive effect of angiotensine converting enzyme inhibitor (perindopril) versus beta blocker (acebutolol) in hypertensive patients. It was a double blind, placebo controlled study performed in the group of 31 patients (16 males, 15 females; mean age 46.6 +/- 8.7 years) with newly diagnosed (previously not treated) mild to moderate hypertension. Each patient in the wash-out period (two weeks) was given placebo and then was randomized to active treatment: perindopril (4 mg/day) or acebutolol (400 mg/day) for 3 weeks, following these drugs were cross matched (after one week wash out period). Blood pressure (BP) with mercury sphygmomanometer was measured three times: after 2 weeks of placebo treatment, after 3 weeks of perindopril and 3 weeks of acebutolol treatment. Both perindopril and acebutolol proved to be effective in monotherapy of hypertension. After 3 weeks of the treatment we observed BP systolic and diastolic normalization, but more patients had systolic BP normalization after perindopril treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11606149
Few studies have prospectively and systematically explored the factors that acutely precipitate exacerbation of congestive heart failure (CHF) in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Knowledge of such factors is important in designing measures to prevent deterioration of clinical status. The objective of this study was to prospectively describe the precipitants associated with exacerbation of CHF status in patients enrolled in the Randomized Evaluation of Strategies for Left Ventricular Dysfunction Pilot Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11607795
Renal artery stenosis is among the most common curable causes of hypertension. The definitive diagnosis is made by renal angiography, an invasive and costly procedure. The prevalence of renal artery stenosis is less than 1% in non-selected hypertensive patients but is higher when hypertension is resistant to drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11641310
International guidelines recommend that antihypertensive drug therapy should normalize not only diastolic (DBP) but also systolic blood pressure (SBP). Therapeutic trials based on cardiovascular mortality have recently shown that SBP reduction requires normalization of both large artery stiffness and wave reflections. The aim of the present study was to compare the antihypertensive effects of the very-low-dose combination indapamide (0.625 mg) and perindopril (2 mg) (Per/Ind) with the beta-blocking agent atenolol (50 mg) to determine whether Per/Ind decreases SBP and pulse pressure (PP) more than does atenolol and, if so, whether this decrease is predominantly due to reduction of aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) (automatic measurements) and reduction of wave reflections (pulse wave analysis, applanation tonometry). In a double-blind randomized study, 471 patients with essential hypertension were followed for 12 months. For the same DBP reduction, Per/Ind decreased brachial SBP (-6.02 mm Hg; 95% confidence interval, -8.90 to -3.14) and PP (-5.57; 95% confidence interval, -7.70 to -3.44) significantly more than did atenolol. This difference was significantly more pronounced for the carotid artery than for the brachial artery. Whereas the 2 antihypertensive agents decreased PWV to a similar degree, only Per/Ind significantly attenuated carotid wave reflections, resulting in a selective decrease in SBP and PP. The very-low-dose combination Per/Ind normalizes SBP, PP, and arterial function to a significantly larger extent than does atenolol, a hemodynamic profile that is known to improve survival in hypertensive populations with high cardiovascular risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11641316
Pulse pressure has been more strongly associated with cardiovascular outcomes, especially myocardial infarction and heart failure, than has systolic, diastolic, or mean arterial pressure in a variety of populations. Little is known, however, of the comparative effects of various classes of antihypertensive agents on pulse pressure. In retrospective analyses of the Veterans Affairs Single-Drug Therapy for Hypertension Study, we compared changes in pulse pressure with 6 classes of antihypertensive agents: 1292 men with diastolic blood pressure of 95 to 109 mm Hg on placebo were randomized to receive hydrochlorothiazide, atenolol, captopril, clonidine, diltiazem, prazosin, or placebo. Drug doses were titrated to achieve a goal diastolic blood pressure of <90 mm Hg during a 4- to 8-week medication titration phase. Pulse pressure change (placebo subtracted) was assessed from baseline to the end of the 3-month titration and 1-year maintenance. Mean baseline systolic, diastolic, and pulse pressures were 152, 99, and 53 mm Hg, respectively. Reductions in pulse pressure during titration were greater (P<0.001) with clonidine (6.7 mm Hg) and hydrochlorothiazide (6.2 mm Hg) than with captopril (2.5 mm Hg), diltiazem (1.6 mm Hg), and atenolol (1.4 mm Hg); reduction with prazosin (3.9 mm Hg) was similar to all but clonidine. After 1 year, pulse pressure was reduced significantly more (P<0.001) with hydrochlorothiazide (8.6 mm Hg) than with captopril and atenolol (4.1 mm Hg with both); clonidine (6.3 mm Hg), diltiazem (5.5 mm Hg), and prazosin (5.0 mm Hg) were intermediate. These data show that classes of antihypertensive agents differ in their ability to reduce pulse pressure. Whether these differences affect rates of cardiovascular events remains to be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11674903
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11675840
To explore how well physicians who treat hypertension know the indications and contraindications for particular antihypertensive therapies, and how closely their opinions and practice of hypertension treatment agree with national guidelines.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11677866
After a significant mortality benefit with bisoprolol in heart failure was demonstrated in CIBIS-II, an economic evaluation has been performed in cost-effectiveness terms. Average direct costs per patient were based on clinical data from 231 French patients, and measured in the perspective of the French National Health Insurance, effectiveness being expressed in terms of life days gained per patient. The extra cost of bisoprolol treatment and follow-up (averaging FF 1300 per 1.3 years) is outweighed by the reduction in hospitalization costs (representing a saving of FF 10,500 per patient) and other medication costs. Finally, bisoprolol therapy induces benefits in terms of both cost and survival: on average FF 9500 and 11 life days per patient. Sensitivity analyses confirm these results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11679383
To determine whether multidisciplinary disease management programmes for patients with coronary heart disease improve processes of care and reduce morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11684376
To evaluate the effect of hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) on blood pressure (BP) in postmenopausal hypertensive women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11684627
Bradykinin, an endogenous vasodilator peptide, is metabolized by ACE. The aims of the present study were to determine the doses of B9340, a bradykinin receptor antagonist, that inhibit vasodilatation to exogenous bradykinin and to assess the contribution of bradykinin to the maintenance of basal vascular tone in patients with heart failure receiving chronic ACE inhibitor therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11684630
Activation of the sympathetic nervous system has important prognostic implications in chronic heart failure. Nonselective versus selective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists may have differential effects on norepinephrine release from nerve terminals mediated by prejunctional beta(2)-adrenergic receptors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11684917
Persons 75 years of age or older constitute 6.1% of the US population but account for 36% of acute myocardial infarctions (MI) and 60% of deaths. Unfortunately, despite the fact that patients over age 75 represent a large subgroup with an exceptionally high case-fatality rate, most randomized clinical trials have enrolled few patients in this group. As a result, therapeutic recommendations for managing acute MI in the very elderly are often extrapolated from studies conducted in younger patients. This article reviews current evidence-based guidelines for early treatment of acute MI in the elderly. As in younger patients, aspirin, beta blockers, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should be considered standard therapy in appropriately selected elderly patients. Although the benefits of reperfusion therapy (i.e., thrombolysis and primary angioplasty) are less well established, advanced age per se should not be considered a contraindication to the use of these interventions. Given the relative paucity of data in the very elderly, additional studies are needed to define optimal pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic treatment of acute MI in this rapidly growing, high-risk population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11685175
Diabetic patients are at increased risk for both macrovascular and microvascular disease compared with nondiabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11688609
Until recently, use of beta-blockers was contraindicated in treatment of patients with congestive heart failure. However, empirical evidence suggests that adding beta-blockers to the standard therapy can slow the progression of heart failure and reduce mortality, including sudden cardiac death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11688766
The main purpose of this study was to compare efficacy, tolerability and influence on quality of life (QOL) of nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (NI) 30-60 mg once a day vs amlodipine (AM) 5-10 mg once a day in elderly patients with mild-moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11691524
The purpose of this study was to determine whether carvedilol's alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonism persists during long-term therapy of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11692790
We examined retrospectively 186 patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and 163 patients with cardiac insufficiency (CHF) regarding secondary prevention in hospital or externally. Of the Inhospital-patients with ACS 99% had antithrombotic medicaments (AT), 73% betablockers and 73% a statin. CHF-patients had ACEH in 69%. Externally 120 patients with known coronary heart disease (CHD) received in 91% AT, 66% betablocker, 30% statins and 111 CHF-patients in 49% ACEH. Compared to other studies medical therapy ameliorated in CHD and CHF either stationary and ambulatory. The reasons for low prescription of statins may be due to short time since positive results occurred and to the expensive costs in the setting of pressure because of high cost in health system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11693075
This study evaluates the effects on coronary patients of a new practice in community pharmacies called Pharmaceutical Care (PhC) as compared to the traditional pattern of pharmacy practice. It attempts to ascertain whether pharmaceutical care is feasible in addition to ascertaining differences in effectiveness for coronary patients' pharmacotherapeutic health outcomes, potentially attributable to PhC.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11699618
Elderly individuals constitute an increasing proportion of coronary patients, and up-to-date information is needed of their treatments in the community.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11700777
To investigate the cost effectiveness of adding the beta-blocker bisoprolol to standard treatment in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11702031
The approach to the treatment of hypertension in the elderly hypertensive should take into account the effects of the different antihypertensive drugs on the quality of life, especially in the elderly where a small reduction in health status could have an impact on their independence.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11702517
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11703993
Pulse pressure has been related to higher risk of cardiovascular events in older persons. Isolated systolic hypertension is common among the elderly and is accompanied by elevated pulse pressure. Treatment of isolated systolic hypertension may further increase pulse pressure if diastolic pressure is lowered to a greater extent than systolic pressure. Little is known regarding pulse pressure as a predictor of cardiovascular outcomes in elderly persons with isolated systolic hypertension, and the influence of treatment on the pulse pressure effect. We assessed the relation between pulse pressure, measured throughout the follow-up period, and the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD), heart failure (HF), and stroke in 4,632 participants in the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program, a 5-year randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of treatment of isolated systolic hypertension in older adults. In the treatment group, a 10-mm Hg increase in pulse pressure was associated with a statistically significant 32% increase in risk of HF and a 24% increase in risk of stroke after controlling for systolic blood pressure and other known risk factors, as well as with a 23% increase in risk of HF and a 19% increase in risk of stroke after controlling for diastolic blood pressure and other risk factors. Pulse pressure was not significantly associated with HF or stroke in the placebo group, nor with incidence of CHD in either the placebo or treatment group. These results suggest that pulse pressure is a useful marker of risk for HF and stroke among older adults being treated for isolated systolic hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11711020
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11720061
Much of the individual variation in drug response is due to genetic drug metabolic polymorphisms. Clinically relevant examples include acetylator status; cytochrome P450 2D6, 2C9 and 2C19 polymorphisms; and thiopurine methyltransferase deficiency. It is important to be aware of which drugs are subject to pharmacogenetic variability. In the future, population-based pharmacogenetic testing will allow more individualized drug treatment and will avoid the current empiricism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11720598
This is a retrospective review of three male patients with verapamil-sensitive left ventricular tachycardia, severe coronary artery disease, and past myocardial infarction. Each patient had severe left ventricular dysfunction (mean ejection fraction 34%). Each tachycardia had a right bundle branch block/left axis deviation morphology, which was sustained with isoproterenol. One patient had incessant tachycardia 3 days after coronary bypass surgery. Electrophysiology and clinical parameters were suggestive of triggered activity rather than reentry. Each tachycardia was terminated with verapamil but failed with adenosine, beta blockers, and class I/III antiarrhythmics. Prior cases of verapamil-sensitive ventricular tachycardia have been seen in patients without organic heart disease, and the putative mechanism appears to be reentry. These patients with ischemic coronary artery disease may exhibit a mechanism of triggered activity in the Purkinje system region, which is responsive to calcium channel blockade. Successful radiofrequency ablation was guided by Purkinje potentials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11721319
The aim of this study was to compare the mechanical and intrinsic effects of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, vs a beta-blocker, on brachial arterial compliance. In a double blind study, 34 essential hypertensive patients were treated for 3 months with either ramipril 2.5-5.0 mg daily (n = 17, age 57 +/- 7 y, 11 males) or atenolol 50-100 mg daily (n = 17, age 53 +/- 8 y, 11 males). Blood pressure (BP), brachial artery diameter (D), brachial-radial pulse wave velocity (PWV) and effective compliance (Ceff), were measured before and at the end of the study. Isobaric evaluation (Ciso) was performed in the entire population studied at an average mean BP of 110 mmHg. Ramipril significantly reduced BP from 155 +/- 16/94 +/- 6 mmHg to 140 +/- 15/85 +/- 7 mmHg (p < 0.001) without affecting heart rate (HR; 74 +/- 10 vs. 75 +/- 12 bpm). In addition, it significantly improved both PWV (18%; p < 0.001) and arterial compliance (45%; p < 0.001), from which 35% was related to a pressure independent effect (p < 0.01). Atenolol also induced a reduction in both BP (159 +/- 17/96 +/- 10 to 133 +/- 13/81 +/- 8 mmHg; p < 0.001) and HR (76 +/- 10 to 57 +/- 7 bpm; p < 0.001). In a similar way, PWV (11%; p < 0.05) and Ceff (30%; p < 0.05) were significantly improved without significant change in Ciso. This suggests that blood pressure reduction was responsible for compliance improvement. In conclusion, it is suggested that atenolol induces only hemodynamic changes, mediated mainly by BP reduction. In contrast, the improved brachial buffering function observed after ramipril involves not only hemodynamic changes, but also changes mediated by other mechanisms, such as modification of wall structures.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11721720
Although in experimental models of coronary occlusion diltiazem administration has been shown to reduce the degree of stunning and of reperfusion injury, the majority of clinical trials has failed to demonstrate significant benefits. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of diltiazem, administered before coronary reperfusion, on infarct size, residual myocardial viability and recovery of left ventricular function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11723019
beta-blocker (BB) use reduces infarct size in spontaneously occurring nonreperfused infarcts but probably does not change infarct size in patients treated with reperfusion therapy. A recent observational study suggested that BB use concurrent with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) decreased the risk of creatine kinase (CK)-MB elevation. The cogency of such a conclusion is dependent on the ability to risk-adjust for the multiple differences in patients treated with and without BBs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11723089
The Captopril Prevention Project (CAPPP) evaluated the effects of an ACE inhibitor-based therapeutic regimen on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in hypertension. One planned subanalysis of the CAPPP was to evaluate the outcome in the diabetic patient group.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11724081
To determine drug prescription patterns and the extent of conformity with World Health Organization/international Society of Hypertension (WHO/ISH) guidelines in diabetic hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11726010
Several studies have reported increased health care resource use among hypertensive patients with uncontrolled blood pressure (BP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11727652
The goal of antihypertensive treatment, in addition to lowering blood pressure, is to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. Until recently, however, only conventional treatment with diuretics and beta-blockers had been studied in terms of cardiovascular end points. In this article, Dr Yeun reviews the results of recent trials comparing these agents with other classes of antihypertensive drugs. She examines the confounding elements in the trials, provides an interpretation of study results, and suggests a practical approach to initial treatment of uncomplicated hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11728147
To assess the antiischaemic efficacy and tolerability of the metabolic agent trimetazidine in combination with metoprolol in patients with stable effort angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11731729
Urapidil, a postsynaptic alpha 1 -adrenergic antagonist, has been reported to improve intraoperative hemodynamic stability, although it has never been used to prevent the hemodynamic response of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). This study was designed to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of urapidil, as an alternative to labetalol, in preventing the hemodynamic response of ECT. Twenty-seven patients undergoing a series of six consecutive ECT treatments were studied. Each patient received all three pretreatments twice: no drug, labetalol 0.2 mg/kg, or urapidil 25 mg. Systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressure and heart rate (HR) were recorded during the awake state, after anesthesia induction, and 1, 2, 5, 10 and 30 minutes after electroencephalographic (EEG) seizure ended. The duration of the EEG convulsion was also recorded. After induction, the HR increased for no drug and urapidil pretreatments, whereas it decreased when labetalol was given. Labetalol and urapidil attenuated the peak increase of blood pressure and returned it to earlier baseline values. There were no differences in the duration of EEG convulsion between the three pretreatments. Urapidil seems to be a good alternative to labetalol for attenuating the hypertensive response to ECT in cases where there is a contraindication to beta-antagonists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11731997
Although beta blockers have had significant impact in the treatment of portal hypertension, the question of how long they should be continued for prevention of variceal hemorrhage remains unknown. Prospective studies on beta blockers to prevent variceal hemorrhage lack long-term follow-up, and indefinite administration of beta blockers for primary prevention of variceal bleeding has become standard practice. The aim of this study was to determine the outcomes of patients in whom beta blocker therapy was discontinued. Patients completing a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of propranolol for the primary prevention of variceal hemorrhage were tapered off of propranolol and placebo and followed prospectively for subsequent events. Of the 49 patients in the follow-up study (25 former propranolol, 24 former placebo), 9 experienced variceal hemorrhage (6 former propranolol, 3 former placebo). Following withdrawal of propranolol, the freedom from variceal bleeding was not significantly different between these 2 groups of patients, suggesting that the protective effect of propranolol against variceal hemorrhage, noted previously, was no longer present. Seventeen patients died (12 former propranolol, 5 former placebo) during the follow-up study. Cumulative survival was longer in the placebo group. These trends for EVH and survival were opposite to those observed in the original study population while patients were taking medication. When propranolol is withdrawn, the risk of variceal hemorrhage returns to what would be expected in an untreated population. Patients who discontinue beta blockers experience increased mortality compared with an untreated population. These observations support the current practice of indefinite prophylactic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11734093
Hypertension is often poorly controlled despite its importance and despite the availability of very effective treatments. Many factors contribute to poor control, including failure of patients to attend physicians, failure of physicians to detect and adequately treat hypertension to goal levels, and failure of patients to persist with prescribed therapy. An under-recognized problem is the failure, both in writing and in the application by third party payers, of consensus guidelines to recognize the important difference between efficacy in clinical trials and effectiveness in clinical practice. The issue of applicability of guidelines to actual practice was studied in the context of a Canadian Family Medicine teaching practice. At the time of the study, consensus guidelines for management of hypertension recommended that drug therapy be initiated with a beta-blocker or diuretic, except for patients with complicated hypertension for whom these drug classes are relatively contraindicated. It was generally assumed that widespread use of other classes of drugs represented inappropriate and wasteful use of resources. By a retrospective chart audit, we determined the proportion of patients in a family practice for whom therapy with a beta-blocker or diuretic was contraindicated, and examined the compliance of the physicians in the practice with guidelines. We found that about half of hypertensives had conditions for which recommended therapy is not a beta-blocker or diuretic. Thus, failure of physicians to follow guidelines is apparently less inappropriate than is widely perceived.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11734686
Pregnancy is often associated with ocular changes, most often transient in nature, though occasionally permanent. It can be associated with development of new conditions, or can exacerbate pre-existing conditions. The ocular effects of pregnancy may be divided into physiologic changes, pathologic conditions or modifications of pre-existing conditions. Pathologic conditions include entities such as pre-eclampsia and eclampsia, along with conditions that are seen with increased frequency during pregnancy such as central serous retinopathy. The most significant modified pre-existing condition is diabetes mellitus. The various effects of pregnancy on the eye will be reviewed in this article.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11736772
The aim of this randomised controlled study was to determine whether an esmolol infusion affected the incidence of ST segment changes during weaning from intermittent positive pressure ventilation and tracheal extubation after coronary artery surgery. Thirty-one patients received an infusion of esmolol 0-300 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) and 37 patients comprised the control group. ST segment changes were monitored using a continuous ambulatory surveillance system. The electrocardiogram, direct arterial pressure and pulse oximetry were monitored continuously. The period of analysis was from 120 min before until 180 min after tracheal extubation. Three patients in the esmolol group developed myocardial ischaemia during the study period compared with 12 in the control group (p = 0.05). Heart rate increased with time during the study period (p = 0.002) in the control group but was unchanged in the esmolol group. Mean heart rate was significantly higher in the control group than in the esmolol group from 40 min before until 180 min after tracheal extubation. Seven patients in the esmolol group suffered adverse events related to the esmolol infusion. Although the use of esmolol reduced the incidence of myocardial ischaemia, the incidence of adverse effects makes it unsuitable prophylaxis for patients after coronary artery surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11738224
Carvedilol therapy reduces mortality from sudden cardiac death and progressive pump failure in congestive heart failure (CHF). However, the effect(s) of carvedilol on ventricular repolarization characteristics is unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11738299
We hypothesized that aspirin (ASA) might alter the beneficial effect of beta-blockers on left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11738309
The study evaluated the effects of metoprolol, a pure beta-blocker, and d,l-sotalol, a beta-blocker with additional class III antiarrhythmic effects, on microvolt-level T-wave alternans (TWA).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11740134
To compare the effect of a calcium antagonist and a beta-blocker on left-ventricular diastolic function in patients with ischemic heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11740831
Whereas there is some degree of coronary artery disease (CAD) in most patients undergoing vascular surgery, there is no consensus regarding how to avoid perioperative cardiac ischemic events. Although this edition of Seminars in Vascular Surgery is devoted to aortic surgery, it must be remembered that the incidence of adverse cardiac outcomes after infrainguinal operations is at least as great as after aortic procedures. Thus, much of the information discussed herein will be applicable to patients undergoing all varieties of vascular surgery. Numerous strategies exist for preoperative cardiac testing before vascular operations. These strategies range from routine evaluation before surgery to a "minimalist" approach, treating all patients as though CAD was present. Although advocates of various algorithms often are unwavering in their convictions, there are no randomized, prospective studies comparing different strategies for evaluation and management of patients with CAD undergoing vascular surgery. Potential adverse effects of evaluation and cardiac intervention should be considered before undertaking screening studies. The authors analyzed the adverse outcomes of preoperative cardiac evaluation and intervention before vascular operations in patients treated at the Denver Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Of 153 patients undergoing vascular procedures, 42 had extended cardiac evaluations. Sixteen (38%) patients had untoward events related to this evaluation. Extensive cardiac evaluation before vascular operations can result in morbidity, delays, and refusal to undergo vascular surgery. The underlying indication for vascular operations and the local iatrogenic cardiac complication rates should be considered before ordering special studies. Several recent randomized, prospective studies have established that perioperative beta-adrenergic blockade is beneficial in vascular patients with CAD. Beta-Blocker therapy can reduce the risk of perioperative adverse cardiac outcomes by 55%. The Coronary Artery Revascularization Prophylaxis (CARP) trial currently underway is a multicenter, prospective comparison of invasive intervention for CAD versus best medical care in patients undergoing aortic and lower extremity vascular surgery funded by the Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11742926
We examined whether autonomic functions assessed by heart rate variability (HRV) during standardized head-up tilt testing (HUTT) predict risk for death in stable patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11744130
To compare the efficacy of milrinone and dobutamine in patients chronically treated with carvedilol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11745304
A recent observational study suggested that the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors protects against cancer in general and against breast and female reproductive tract cancers in particular. To explore these hypotheses, the authors examined cancer risk among users of ACE inhibitors in North Jutland County, Denmark.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11747387
Hypertension and diabetes are becoming increasingly common. Most patients with both disorders have a markedly worsened risk for premature microvascular and macrovascular complications. The appropriate management of the hypertension seen in almost 70% of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus remains controversial. However, over the past few years, many randomized, controlled trials have provided guidance for more effective therapy. These trials have established the need for a lower goal blood pressure (<130/80 mm Hg) than has previously been recommended. In addition, they have proven the efficacy of drugs from three major classes of antihypertensive agents; however, comparative trials have failed to show definite superiority of any particular class in either lowering blood pressure or reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. To achieve therapy goals, multiple antihypertensive drugs are usually needed. On the basis of their apparent superiority in slowing diabetic nephropathy, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should probably be the first choice. Second and third choices should be a long-acting diuretic and a calcium-channel blocker or a beta-blocker, respectively. Attention should also be directed toward nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic control of hyperglycemia and dyslipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11748098
Patients with low HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) and elevated triglyceride had an increased risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) events and received the greatest benefit with fibrate therapy in substudy analyses of the Helsinki Heart Study and the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11751658
To investigate diastolic and systolic left ventricular recovery during titration with metoprolol CR/XL (controlled release/extended release).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11755834
A long-term comparison of the ocular hypotensive efficacy and safety of unoprostone isopropyl 0.15% twice daily with that of timolol maleate 0.5% twice daily and betaxolol HCl 0.5% twice daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11759128
Many researchers have studied esmolol and its effects on heart rate and blood pressure. All studied relatively large doses of esmolol. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to determine whether small doses of esmolol would blunt the transient increases in blood pressure and heart rate caused by laryngoscopy. This double-blind, prospective, randomized study included 61 subjects. The subjects were randomized to 1 of 3 groups: group 1 received esmolol, 0.2 mg/kg; group 2 received esmolol, 0.4 mg/kg; and group 3 received saline placebo. Groups 1 and 2 had smaller increases in heart rate than group 3. We also found that the 0.4 mg/kg dose significantly blunted the increase in mean arterial pressure seen in group 3. This study shows that small doses of esmolol may block the increases in heart rate and blood pressure resulting from laryngoscopy and intubation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11759645
Actions of angiotensin II may contribute to the progression of heart failure despite treatment with currently recommended drugs. We therefore evaluated the long-term effects of the addition of the angiotensin-receptor blocker valsartan to standard therapy for heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11765303
A noteworthy shift from class I to class III antiarrhythmic agents for suppression of atrial fibrillation has occurred. Sotalol, amiodarone, and dofetilide have been evaluated for their ability to maintain sinus rhythm in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. All of these agents are moderately effective; however, amiodarone appears to be most efficacious. Aside from their common class III actions, these agents have profoundly different pharmacologic, pharmacokinetic, safety, and drug interaction profiles that help guide drug selection. Amiodarone and dofetilide are safe in patients who have had a myocardial infarction and those with heart failure. The safety of commercially available d,l-sotalol in these patients is poorly understood. Torsades de pointes is the most serious adverse effect of sotalol and dofetilide, and risk increases with renal dysfunction. Amiodarone has minimal proarrhythmic risk but has numerous noncardiac toxicities that require frequent monitoring. Overall, an ideal antiarrhythmic agent does not exist, and drug selection should be highly individualized.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11768738
Patients with chronic heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction of ischemic or nonischemic etiology have shown improvement in morbidity and mortality with carvedilol therapy. In patients with symptomatic (New York Heart Association class II-IV) heart failure, carvedilol improves left ventricular ejection fraction and clinical status, and slows disease progression, reducing the combined risk of mortality and hospitalization. Despite the overwhelming evidence for their benefit, there continues to be a large treatment gap between those who would derive benefit and those who actually receive the drug. In this article, the pharmacology, clinical trial evidence, and the potential differences between carvedilol and other beta blockers are discussed. Carvedilol provides powerful therapy in the treatment of chronic heart failure caused by a variety of etiologies and in a wide array of clinical settings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11770869
It has been suggested that phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibition is potentially hazardous and that it increases the risk of cardiac events in patients with coronary artery disease. This study sought to evaluate whether PDE5 inhibition with sildenafil exerts any effect on exercise-induced myocardial ischemia in patients on beta-blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11773911
Congestive heart failure (HF) represents a major public health problem with an age-related increasing prevalence. Despite the high mortality and morbidity in elderly patients with HF, limited clinical and prognostic data are available for development of appropriate prevention and treatment strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11773912
The purpose of this study was to assess frequency, risk factors, treatment, and complications of very young patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI) at the University of Michigan Medical Center (UMMC).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11777294
Headaches occur at some time in the vast majority of the population. For most people headaches are a nuisance but for some they can be disabling. Two per cent of the population at any time have chronic daily headache, with or without analgesic dependence, but most disabling headaches are intermittent and migranous in nature. Before hoping to make an appropriate intervention, an accurate diagnosis must be made. The first part of this paper examines the differential diagnosis and in particular separates benign from sinister, acute from chronic and tension-type from migranous. The second half focuses on the management of migraine. An individualised approach is usually the most effective, with the patient drawing from the broad areas of attention to trigger factors and lifestyle, finding an acute or rescue medication that consistently returns them to normal activities within a few hours, and prophylaxis to reduce the rate of attack by 50% in those with high frequency migraine. The expession of migraine may well vary during an individual's life and in order to achieve the best lifelong control, adjustment of the blend of management options may be needed. The aim of the adviser is to enable patients to feel in control of their migraine rather than feeling that migraine controls them.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11780330
To analyse the relationship between age and treatment with captopril after acute myocardial infarction (AMI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11782853
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of immediate-release (IR) metoprolol, 50 mg 3 times daily, were compared with those of different doses of controlled-release/extended-release metoprolol (CR/XL) given once daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11783600
Although several in vitro studies and clinical observations suggest that ACE-inhibitors (ACE-I) are a promising treatment for IgA nephropathy (IgAN), meta-analysis of published data is not yet conclusive. Therefore, a European double-blinded, prospective, randomized therapeutic trial was designed to evaluate ACE-I treatment benefits in young IgAN patients (<35 years old) with persistent moderate proteinuria (>1<3.5 g/day/1.73 m2) and fair renal function (creatinine clearance >50 mL/min/1.73 m2). Patients enrolled are randomly assigned to benazepril (0.2 mg/kg/day) or placebo. Patients should be enrolled within a five year recruitment period (end on December 2003) for a total duration of follow-up of six years (end on December 2004). Hypertension and some genetic, histological and immunological factors will be evaluated to clarify their eventual role in the final response to ACE-I treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11787477
Mutation scanning of the beta1-adrenoceptor gene has identified a polymorphism, G389R, that markedly affects G-protein coupling of the receptor and resulting cAMP production. We have investigated the effect of this functionally active polymorphism on clinical response to beta-adrenoceptor blockade. Two cohorts of untreated hypertensive patients randomly assigned to a beta1-selective beta-blocker at the start of antihypertensive therapy were studied retrospectively to see if the G389R polymorphism influenced the response in terms of blood pressure and heart rate. The blood pressure and heart rate responses to treatment were assessed 4 weeks later and compared with the G389R genotype, ascertained by PCR/restriction fragment length polymorphism. The falls in blood pressure and heart rate for the first group (n = 92) by genotype were: GG, 20.1 +/- 3.5/13.9 +/- 2.7 mmHg (systolic/diastolic blood pressure), 18.4 +/- 2.2 beats/min; GR, 20.0 +/- 2.2/15.0 +/- 1.3 mmHg, 16.5 +/- 1.5 beats/min; RR, 20.8 +/- 2.3/13.4 +/- 1.1 mmHg, 16.0 +/- 1.4 beats/min. For the second group (n = 55) the corresponding falls were: GG, 17.0 +/- 4.3/11.2 +/- 3.4 mmHg, 12.0 +/- 3.5 beats/min; GR, 16.6 +/- 1.8/14.4 +/- 1.1 mmHg, 13.1 +/- 2.1 beats/min; RR, 18.0 +/- 1.6/13.0 +/- 1.4 mmHg, 14.4 +/- 1.4 beats/min. The G389R genotype also failed to have a significant effect on pretreatment blood pressure or heart rate in either group. These data suggest that, despite clear functional differences between the G389R receptor variants expressed in vitro, the polymorphism does not affect the haemodynamic response of hypertensive subjects to chronic beta1-adrenoceptor blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11788225
OBJECTIVES; We present a meta-analysis based on three recent, substantial, randomized outcome trials and several smaller trials that compared calcium channel blockers (CCBs) with conventional therapy (diuretics or beta-blockers) or with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11790928
ACE-inhibitors (ACE-I) represent effective drugs more and more widely used in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients, in post AMI patients and mainly, today, in CHF patients.A complete review of the scientific literature and of all the randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs), where ACE-I have been tested directly or in association with other drugs, have been performed. ACE-I effects on total mortality (TM) and arrhythmic mortality (AM) and other composite clinical endpoints have been evaluated. It is well known that frequent ventricular arrhythmias (VA) and a high incidence of sudden death (SD) can be documented in CHF patients; nevertheless a direct relationship between VA, TM, and AM has not been clearly demonstrated; neither beneficial effects, on the same endpoints, of the treatment and suppression of ambient VA in CHF. Conversely, sometimes clear negative effects on both TM and AM have been observed. According to individual studies and two recent complete and large metanalysis, ACE-I were unable to reduce AM, but they reduced TM. Furthermore, they can affect and modify many, if not all, of the triggering factors of VA and SD in this context. Differently from ACE-I, betablockers (BB) have been clearly associated with a reduction in TM and AM, in the same context. Thus, at present time, ACE-I, with or without BB, should be considered the standard therapy in all patients with CHF, if not contraindicated. Angiotensin II antagonists (AII-a) probably represent a comparably effective treatment, in all CHF patients and mainly in those patients, suffering from side effects or showing intolerance to ACE-I, but we are still lacking definitive data from RCTs. In many RCTs, conducted with traditional antiarrhythmic drug therapy (ADT), these drugs have been widely used, contributing probably, in a consistent way, to some of the positive results of these studies. All primary and some secondary implantable defibrillators (ICD) RCTs, in the prevention of SD, have included these drugs as the standard treatment of the underlying cardiac disease, with or without CHF. The same therapeutical strategy is regularly applied in all biventricular pacing (BP) RCTs, with or without the ICD. These trials are supposed to assess the reduction in TM and AM, preventing deterioration or progression of CHF and improving the quality of the patients' s life.Finally, according to these clinical evidences, in the last part of the review, we stress the need for a more widespread implementation of ACE-I and AII-a in treating CHF patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11791022
To examine the relation of anger expression with blood pressure and hypertension among Japanese.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11791028
Treatment of essential hypertensive patients with an AT1 angiotensin receptor antagonist has previously resulted in correction of resistance artery structure and endothelial function, whereas in a parallel group treated with the beta-blocker atenolol there was no improvement of altered vascular structure and function. To test the hypothesis that patients previously treated with atenolol could present improvement of vascular structure and endothelial function if they were subjected to blockade of the renin-angiotensin system, we crossed over hypertensive patients that had been randomized to treatment with the beta-blocker atenolol to treatment with the AT1 antagonist irbesartan, and studied small artery structure and endothelial function before and after treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11792127
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11796456
Because many antihypertensive drugs can affect airway function, the treatment of hypertension in patients with airway dysfunction is complex. For example, the worsening or precipitation of asthma by beta-adrenoceptor antagonists is well-recognized, but beta(1)-adrenoceptor blockers that exert mild beta(2)-agonist effects, and those that modulate the endogenous production of nitric oxide, affect airway function to a lesser extent. Therapy with selective alpha(1)-blockers is not contraindicated in cases of chronic airway obstruction. Conversely, alpha(2)-agonists must not be given to asthmatic subjects because they can adversely affect the bronchi. Calcium channel blockers do not exert severe side effects on the airways. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may cause cough and exacerbate or even induce asthma; however, angiotensin II type I (AT(1)) antagonists do not cause cough. 5-Hydroxytryptamine modifiers such as urapidil are a treatment option for patients with chronic airway obstruction. In patients with airway dysfunction, we suggest treatment with thiazide diuretics as the initial drug choice, and calcium channel blockers if the response is poor. In the case of no response, calcium channel blockers alone must be used. However, there is no strict rule because individual patients may respond differently to individual drugs and drug combinations. Consequently, it is important to adopt a flexible approach. For patients who are unresponsive to the aforementioned drugs, AT(1) receptor antagonists, newer beta(1)-adrenoceptor-blocking agents with ancillary properties (eg, celiprolol or nebivolol), and/or vasodilators can be considered.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11801272
This set of Viewpoints articles examines the merits of beta-blockers versus other medications as the primary drug treatment for glaucoma. Ophthalmologists must balance issues such as efficacy, compliance, cost, and side effects when deciding on the appropriate medication to prescribe. Dr. Stamper stresses the advantages of tailoring the choice of medication to the needs of the individual patient. Drs. Wigginton and Higginbotham review the benefits of beta-blockers and present some of the disadvantages of the non-beta-blocker class of medications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11801805
A 26-year-old woman is evaluated for headaches, which began when she was 14 years old. She states that she initially sees bright zig-zag bands, which expand in the shape of a horseshoe in her right visual field. Twenty minutes later, she develops a throbbing headache over the left frontal area, associated with photophobia and nausea. The headaches last 1-3 days and they occur once a month. There is no medical history, and she takes only multivitamin supplements. Her sister has been diagnosed with migraines. Her examination is normal, including equal and reactive pupils, full extraocular movements, and normal strength and sensation. A magnetic resonance scan of the brain shows no abnormalities.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11804300
We conducted a nested case-control study to evaluate the relationship between antihypertensive agent class and the incidence of initial cardiovascular events. A total of 7.443 patients being treated with an antihypertensive agent in 1985-1986 were enrolled for follow-up of up to 5 years. A total of 362 patients (186 males and 176 females) developed cardiovascular events. Age (5-year interval) and sex-matched controls were then randomly selected. A Multiple logistic regression analysis was done to control for the effects of confounding factors. The results showed that the use of diuretics and beta-blockers was associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular events (odds ratio [OR] =0.65, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.49-0.86, and OR=0.75, 95% CI: 0.56-1.02, respectively), against a significantly raised risk associated with the use of calcium antagonists (OR=1.34, 95% CI: 1.03-1.80). However, as far as stroke was concerned, there was no significant association of risk with the use of any agent. The control group was found to be similar to the case group with respect to the changes in the treatment program during the follow-up period. The results suggest that the calcium antagonists used in Japan during the period of 1985-1990 constituted a potential risk for the occurrence of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11805171
The kidney is the main site of hemoglobin clearance and degradation in conditions of severe hemolysis. Herein it is reported that megalin and cubilin, two epithelial endocytic receptors, mediate the uptake of hemoglobin in renal proximal tubules. Both receptors were purified by use of hemoglobin-Sepharose affinity chromatography of solubilized renal brush-border membranes. Apparent dissociation constants of 1.7 microM for megalin and 4.1 microM for cubilin were determined by surface plasmon resonance analysis. The binding was calcium dependent in both cases. Uptake of fluorescence-labeled hemoglobin by BN-16 cells was inhibited by anti-megalin and anti-cubilin antibodies as well as by receptor-associated protein, a chaperone for LDL-receptor family proteins. Partial inhibition by myoglobin was observed, whereas bovine serum albumin, intrinsic factor-cobalamin complexes, and beta2-microglobulin did not affect the uptake. By use of immunohistochemistry, it was demonstrated that uptake of hemoglobin in proximal tubules of rat, mouse, and dog kidneys occurs under physiologic conditions. Studies on normal and megalin knockout mouse kidney sections showed that megalin is responsible for physiologic clearance of hemoglobin. Labeling intensities in kidneys from normal and cubilin-malexpressing dogs were similar, which suggests that, in the normal state, the role of cubilin in uptake of hemoglobin is rather limited. However, cubilin is likely to assist hemoglobin endocytosis in settings of hemoglobinuria. In conclusion, the study provides a molecular explanation for long-standing observations of hemoglobin uptake in renal proximal tubules that involve the endocytic receptors megalin and cubilin. The findings may prove to be essential for further research on the pathophysiology of hemoglobinuric acute renal failure and proteinuria-associated tubulointerstitial nephritis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11806165
This article includes a review of hypertension, nephrolithiasis and cystic diseases of the kidney, all quite common diagnoses. These days, as concerns are growing, some are considering diabetes mellitus to be a national epidemic. Thus, our entire article focuses on the diabetic renal disease. The current approach to the diagnosis and treatment of acute renal failure and chronic renal insufficiency is discussed, including treatment modalities such as dialysis and transplantation. This article is not at all intended to be a comprehensive review of each topic included, but rather it is an attempt to make the reader more familiar with the fascinating and continuously evolving field of nephrology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11809349
Unstable angina and non-Q-wave myocardial infarction (MI) are common and costly clinical events, but there is considerable uncertainty about optimal clinical management of these syndromes. We developed a prediction rule to help clinicians determine which patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave MI are likely to "fail" medical therapy and ultimately require cardiac catheterization within 6 weeks of presentation. Subjects were 733 patients presenting with unstable angina or non-Q-wave MI enrolled in the TIMI IIIB trial and randomized to initial medical management. We developed a prediction rule based on logistic regression analysis of baseline data from history, physical examination, electrocardiogram, and blood studies. The outcome of interest was "failure" of medical therapy, defined as need for coronary catheterization within 42 days. Significant predictors of "failing" medical therapy included ST segment depression >or= .1 mV (odds ratio, OR, = 2.7, 95% confidence interval, CI, 1.8-4.1), accelerated angina in the prior 2 months (OR = 1.8, 95% CI 1.2-2.6), nitrate use in the prior week (OR = 1.6, 95% CI 1.1-2.2), exertional angina in the prior 2 months (OR = 1.6, 95% CI 1.1-2.2), and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) >or= 0.4 ng/mL (OR = 1.4, 95% CI 1.1-1.9). We used these variables to build a risk score by assigning point values based on these ORs. The risk score had a moderate ability to predict which patients would subsequently fail medical therapy and undergo cardiac catheterization (c = 0.682). Out of a total risk score of 13, failure of medical therapy occurred in 86% of patients who had a risk score >or= 8 (n = 111), 78% of patients who had a risk score >or= 6 (n = 240), and 72% of patients who had a risk score >or= 4 (n = 438). At scores of < 2 (n = 88), 40% of patients failed medical therapy. Although the management of unstable angina is in constant evolution, clinicians will always be faced with determining which patients should be managed most invasively. The simple prediction rule we present can be applied to patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave MI at the time of presentation to predict which patients have a high probability of failing medical therapy. Such a rule may be useful for identifying patients who should be considered for early cardiac catheterization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11810791
Until recently, no morbidity-mortality study had examined the effects of "newer" drugs, like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium antagonists, and alpha-blockers compared to "old", but well-proven, thiazide diuretics, and beta-blockers in the treatment of essential hypertension. The prospective and randomised clinical trials, CAPPP, STOP-2, NORDIL, INSIGHT, and one arm of ALLHAT, with a total of about 58,000 middle-aged or elderly hypertensive patients have now been published. The primary outcome, composite cardiovascular (CV) death, cerebral stroke, and myocardial infarction, or composite fatal coronary heart disease and myocardial infarction, was the same, irrespective of the drug in all trials. Thus, prevention of CV complications depends on the lowering of blood pressure with well-tolerated medication, irrespective of class.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11812667
Few studies have described how neurohormonal activation is influenced by treatment with beta-receptor antagonists in patients with heart failure after acute myocardial infarction. The aims were to describe neurohormonal activity in relation to other variables and to investigate treatment effects of a beta(1) receptor-antagonist compared to a partial beta(1) receptor-agonist.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11812672
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11821634
The objective of this study was to explore the relationship between psychological characteristics and responses to antihypertensive drug therapy. Twenty-two hypertensive subjects underwent psychological evaluation and treatment with 1) a diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ); 2) an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, quinapril; and 3) combined alpha + beta blockade (doxazosin + betaxolol). Anger-Out scores on the State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory were positively correlated with the HCTZ-induced fall in systolic blood pressure (p<0.01); Anger-In was negatively correlated with the quinapril-induced fall in systolic pressure (p<0.05). The target systolic blood pressure (130 mm Hg) was achieved with either HCTZ or quinapril in 79% of subjects without, vs. 25% of subjects with, childhood trauma (p=0.03). Responses to doxazosin + betaxolol were not correlated with psychological characteristics. The authors conclude that both inhibited anger expression and childhood trauma are associated with reduced response to a diuretic or ACE inhibitor. Combined alpha/beta blockade may be preferable to an ACE inhibitor or diuretic in treating selected hypertensive patients. Further studies should include examination of psychological factors in terms of the response to combined ACE inhibitor + diuretic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11822540
The reduction in blood pressure seen with the use of beta-blocking drugs was an unexpected finding. Initially there was resistance to their use as the reduction of cardiac output and increase in peripheral resistance from beta-blockade was considered an undesirable pharmacological action for a drug in the treatment of hypertension. However, beta-blockers have now become established in the treatment of hypertension and have been recommended as a first line choice in various guidelines, although their exact mode of action remains a matter for debate. In broad terms beta-blocking drugs are at least of similar efficacy to the other major classes of antihypertensive drugs. They may be usefully combined with other anti-hypertensives, as is often required. There is some evidence that the beta-1 selective agents are more efficacious than the non-selective beta-blockers. Notwithstanding some observations to the contrary beta-blockers are often effective antihypertensive agents in the elderly and in black patients; the combination of being elderly and black, however, appears to result in a reduced fall in blood pressure. If they are given early in pregnancy they lead to a low birth weight. Co-existant disease may influence the choice of a beta-blocker to treat hypertension. Beta-blockers are valuable agents in ischaemic heart disease, notably the control of chronic angina pectoris and to improve prognosis post-myocardial infarction. While initial dose titration has to be extremely careful, heart failure is now a strong indication for the use of a beta-blocker, as prognosis is much improved. Diabetes should no longer be regarded as a contra-indication to the use of a beta-1 selective agent. Recent work confirms that beta-blockers should be given to patients undergoing surgery who have a high cardiac risk. Outcome studies suggest overall that in younger patients beta-blockers reduce the incidence of strokes and myocardial infarction. There is no convincing evidence of a difference between the ACE inhibitor captopril and the combination of diuretic and a beta-blocker. In high risk patients, i.e. those with diabetes, no difference was seen between captopril and atenolol. Diuretics may result in better outcome measurements in the elderly compared to beta-blockade but in combination, "conventional treatment" is as effective in terms of total mortality, strokes and myocardial infarction as ACE inhibitors or calcium antagonists. Co-existant asthma remains an important contraindication to beta-blockade, but not chronic obstructive airways disease where a beta-blocker should be used with caution if it is indicated, e.g. post-infarction. Quality of life measurements, at least with beta-1 selective agents compare favourably with other anti-hypertensive drugs. Beta-blockers, without partial agonist activity, should not be stopped abruptly, particularly in patients with, or at high risk of, co-existant ischaemic disease because of the danger of post-beta-blockade cardiac sympathetic hypersensitivity; alternatively bed rest should be instituted to reduce the risk of sympathetic stimulation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11822998
Preclinical considerations suggest that treatment with a beta-adrenergic blocker following an acute psychologically traumatic event may reduce subsequent posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms. This pilot study addressed this hypothesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11823672
Beta-adrenergic blockade has in several studies been shown to improve survival after myocardial infarction. In animal experiments beta-blockers have also shown an antiatherosclerotic effect. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that the beta-blocker metoprolol succinate controlled release/extended release (CR/XL), when given to patients with hypercholesterolemia on concomitant lipid-lowering therapy, provides an additional antiatherosclerotic effect to that provided by the statins, measured as carotid intima-media thickness (IMT).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11826413
Prevention of variceal rebleeding is mandatory in cirrhotic patients. We compared the efficacy, safety, and cost of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) versus pharmacologic therapy in preventing variceal rebleeding in patients with advanced cirrhosis. A total of 91 Child-Pugh class B/C cirrhotic patients surviving their first episode of variceal bleeding were randomized to receive TIPS (n = 47) or drug therapy (propranolol + isosorbide-5-mononitrate) (n = 44) to prevent variceal rebleeding. Mean follow-up was 15 months. Rebleeding occurred in 6 (13%) TIPS-treated patients versus 17 (39%) drug-treated patients (P =.007). The 2-year rebleeding probability was 13% versus 49% (P =.01). A similar number of reinterventions were required in the 2 groups; these were mainly angioplasty +/- restenting in the TIPS group (90 of 98) and endoscopic therapy for rebleeding in the medical group (45 of 62) (not significant). Encephalopathy was more frequent in TIPS than in drug-treated patients (38% vs. 14%, P =.007). Child-Pugh class improved more frequently in drug-treated than in TIPS-treated patients (72% vs. 45%; P =.04). The 2-year survival probability was identical (72%). The identified cost of therapy was double for TIPS-treated patients. In summary, medical therapy was less effective than TIPS in preventing rebleeding. However, it caused less encephalopathy, identical survival, and more frequent improvement in Child-Pugh class with lower costs than TIPS in high-risk cirrhotic patients. This suggests that TIPS should not be used as a first-line treatment, but as a rescue for failures of medical/endoscopic treatments (first-option therapies).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11826546
The standard of hypertension control in the population is not satisfactory, only 20% patients with hypertension achieve target values of blood pressure (BP). Extensive prospective studies revealed that diuretics, beta-blockers as well as the majority of calcium channel blockers and ACE inhibitors can significantly reduce the incidence of complications of hypertension and are therefore considered drugs of first choice in the treatment of hypertension. The additive effects of ACE inhibitors are manifested in particular after larger doses. OBJECTIVE OF TRIAL: To assess the effectiveness and tolerance of the modern long-acting ACE inhibitor--fosinopril--in the treatment of mild and medium severe hypertension and its effect on some anthropometric and laboratory parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11830324
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11833829
The goals of antihypertensive therapy are to achieve and maintain blood pressure control by the least intrusive means possible to prevent future cardiovascular and renal events. To achieve these goals, pharmacologic agents must be chosen so as to minimize drug-related adverse events, increase patient adherence to treatment regimens, and minimize the negative impact on health-related quality of life (HRQL). Although the effects of antihypertensive therapy on HRQL have been extensively investigated, there is little synthesis of the research findings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11835110
To test the hypothesis that rationing of medical management mainly based on age exists in our health care system today.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11835919
In hypertensive patients, pulse pressure has been related to hypertension-induced target organ damage and risk of cardiovascular events. However, correlates of pulse pressure reduction during antihypertensive treatment have been less extensively investigated. We related pulse pressure changes to clinical and echocardiographic findings before and after 2 years of antihypertensive treatment in 767 patients aged 55 to 80 years (mean 66) in the Losartan Intervention For End point reduction in hypertension study. Over 2 years, blood pressure and pulse pressure were reduced from 173/98 to 147/84 mm Hg and from 75 to 63 mm Hg, respectively, both p <0.001. In linear multivariate analysis controlling for initial pulse pressure, 2-year reduction in pulse pressure correlated negatively with age and concomitant diabetes mellitus, and positively with body height and 2-year reduction in mean blood pressure (multiple R(2) = 0.42, p <0.01). When dividing the study population into 2 groups using a prognostically validated partition for pulse pressure, patients with pulse pressure > or =63 mm Hg after 2 years of antihypertensive treatment (n = 349) were older and shorter, included more women and patients with isolated systolic hypertension, diabetes mellitus, albuminuria, and echocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy at baseline, and also had a smaller decrease in mean blood pressure and the urinary albumin/creatinine ratio over 2 years (all p <0.05). Thus, in hypertensive patients with electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy, older age, less reduction in mean blood pressure, concomitant diabetes mellitus, and shorter stature are associated with attenuated pulse pressure reduction during antihypertensive treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11836877
Among hypertensive patients, other risk factors for mortality and morbidity, besides blood pressure, must be considered when therapeutic decisions are done.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11840225
Sibutramine is a serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor that is effective for long-term weight reduction and maintenance in obese patients when used as an adjunct to dietary and behavioural measures. Because the inhibition of noradrenaline reuptake may be expected to increase systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP) and pulse rate (PR), a 12-week multi-centre, placebo-controlled, double-blind study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of sibutramine for weight loss in obese patients whose hypertension was well controlled (DBP < or = 95 mm Hg) by beta-adrenergic blocking agents (beta-blockers), with or without concomitant thiazide diuretics. Of the 61 patients randomised to sibutramine 20 mg once daily or placebo, 55 patients (90%) completed the study. After 12 weeks, sibutramine-treated patients lost significantly more weight than placebo-treated patients: mean weight reductions were 4.2 kg (4.5%) in the sibutramine group vs 0.3 kg (0.4%) in the placebo group (P<0.001). Greater weight reduction on sibutramine was accompanied by trends for greater mean reductions in serum triglycerides and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol. Sibutramine was well tolerated, and most adverse events were mild or moderate in severity. No sibutramine patient discontinued treatment because of an adverse event. Mean supine and standing DBP and SBP were not statistically significantly different between the sibutramine group and the placebo group at any post-baseline visit during the 12-week trial. At week 12, mean increases from baseline supine SBP and DBP, respectively, were 1.6 and 1.7 mm Hg for the sibutramine group vs increases of 0.4 and 1.3 mm Hg for the placebo group. At week 12, mean increases from baseline standing SBP and DBP, respectively, were 1.5 and 1.8 mm Hg for the sibutramine group vs an increase of 0.3 and a decrease of 0.8 mm Hg for the placebo group (P > 0.05 for treatment comparison). A statistically significant mean increase of 5.6 bpm (+/-8.25, s.d.) in supine PR from a baseline of 62 bpm was reported in sibutramine-treated patients at week 12, whereas placebo-treated patients had a mean supine PR decrease of 2.2 bpm (+/-6.43) (P < 0.001). In summary, sibutramine was well tolerated and effective in weight reduction. The addition of sibutramine did not result in an increase in BP in obese patients whose hypertension was well controlled by a beta-blocker. However, based on the potential for changes in BP and PR, obese patients being treated with sibutramine should be monitored periodically for changes in BP and PR and managed appropriately.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11845882
Neurohormonal activation in children with heart failure due to congenital heart disease leads to downregulation of myocardial beta-receptors that may influence the postoperative course after cardiothoracic surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11851582
Care of patients with heart failure has been revolutionized throughout the past decade. A paradigm shift in the strategy for treating heart failure caused by systolic dysfunction is in progress. Despite the initial perception about beta-blockers' safety, they are now the most extensively studied class of agents in the treatment of heart failure and have emerged as an important intervention to improve the clinical outcomes of heart failure patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11862577
We describe the effect of controlled-release/extended-release (CR/XL) metoprolol succinate once daily on mortality and hospitalizations among patients with a history of hypertension complicated by chronic systolic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11863244
In a previous retrospective study, long-term treatment of essential hypertensive patients with a slow-release calcium channel blocker resulted in normal resistance artery structure and endothelial function, which did not occur with a beta-blocker. In the present prospective study, 19 previously untreated essential hypertensive patients (aged 47 +/- 2 years, 75% male) were treated for 1 year in a double-blind randomized study with the long-acting calcium channel blocker amlodipine or the beta-blocker atenolol. Resistance arteries (lumen diameter, 150 to 350 microm) dissected from gluteal subcutaneous biopsies were studied on a pressurized myograph. Blood pressure (BP) control (129 +/- 2/85 +/- 2 mm Hg) was identical in both groups for the last 6 months of the study. After 1 year of treatment with amlodipine, the media-to-lumen ratio (M/L) of resistance arteries decreased from 7.89% +/- 0.40% to 6.81% +/- 0.41% (P < .05). Acetylcholine-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation tended to improve from 84.3% +/- 5.5% to 90.5% +/- 4.8% (P = .06), whereas sodium nitroprusside-induced relaxation was unchanged in the patients treated with amlodipine. In the beta-blocker-treated group there was no significant change in M/L or acetylcholine-induced relaxation. In conclusion, treatment with the calcium channel blocker amlodipine corrected altered resistance artery structure and tended to improve endothelial function in essential hypertensive patients, whereas similar good control of BP with the beta-blocker atenolol did not. Whether the vascular protective effect of amlodipine will result in improved outcomes in hypertension remains to be demonstrated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11868043
A deleterious effect of complete left bundle-branch block (LBBB) on left ventricular function has been established. Nevertheless, the independent effect of a widened QRS on mortality rate in congestive heart failure (CHF) is still controversial. Therefore, we carried out this analysis to determine whether LBBB is an independent predictor of mortality in CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11868804
To examine treatment patterns of heart failure (HF) in general practice and to evaluate factors influencing the choice of that treatment, such as age, sex, severity of disease and co-morbidity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11871210
The aim of this review was to assess the effect of pharmacological reduction of the heart rate on prognosis in patients with chronic heart failure. Although a high heart rate is associated with a reduced life expectancy and causes a number of unwanted pathophysiological effects on the failing heart, there is no documentation that the beneficial effect of beta-blockers or other heart failure agents on survival is mediated through a reduction in heart rate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11871761
Propranolol causes splanchnic arterial vasoconstriction owing to the unopposed alpha vasoconstriction resulting from the blockade of beta-2 adrenoceptors. It is therefore hypothesized that this drug may cause vasoconstriction in the splenic arterial circulation and, thus, modify the manifestations of hypersplenism, such as thrombocytopenia. The aim of the present study was to test this hypothesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11875324
The International Nifedipine GITS Study Intervention as a Goal in Hypertension Treatment (INSIGHT) showed, by means of office blood pressure measurements, that long-term treatment with nifedipine GITS is as effective as diuretics in preventing cardiovascular and cerebrovascular complications. However, since office blood pressure measurements reflect to a limited extent blood pressure outside the office, a side-arm INSIGHT study in which patients underwent both office measurement and 24 h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring was also performed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11877357
It is well established that hypertensive patients with left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy have impaired diastolic filling. However, the impact of antihypertensive treatment and LV mass reduction on LV diastolic filling remains unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11880723
Glaucoma in children is characterized by marked intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation with resultant atrophy of the optic nerve and loss of retinal ganglion cells. In very young children, secondary expansion of the globe with damage to anterior segment structures, such as the cornea and zonule, often occurs. Permanent, severe visual dysfunction may result from optic nerve damage as well as from amblyopia arising from anisometropia and corneal opacification. The treatment of childhood glaucoma often involves surgery. Goniotomy and trabeculotomy remain the first line surgical procedures for open-angle glaucoma in children. Trabeculectomy with adjunctive antifibrosis therapy, aqueous shunt surgery, and cyclodestructive procedures are undertaken when angle surgery fails to control the IOP or is unlikely to succeed. The choice of surgical procedure is individualized according to factors such as the age of the patient, the specific type of glaucoma, the number of prior surgical procedures, and the visual potential of the eye. Achieving and maintaining an adequate IOP to prevent progressive optic nerve damage, avoiding complications, and preserving vision are the goals that must be considered in deciding on a surgical plan.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11881864
This review focuses on the mechanisms and sites of action underlying beta-adrenergic antagonism in perioperative medicine. A large body of knowledge has recently emerged from basic and clinical research concerning the mechanisms of the life-saving effects of beta-adrenergic antagonists (beta-AAs) in high-risk cardiac patients. This article re-emphasizes the mechanisms underlying beta-adrenergic antagonism and also illuminates novel rationales behind the use of perioperative beta-AAs from a biological point of view. Particularly, it delineates new concepts of beta-adrenergic signal transduction emerging from transgenic animal models. The role of the different characteristics of various beta-AAs is discussed, and evidence will be presented for the selection of one specific agent over another on the basis of individual drug profiles in defined clinical situations. The salutary effects of beta-AAs on the cardiovascular system will be described at the cellular and molecular levels. Beta-AAs exhibit many effects beyond a reduction in heart rate, which are less known by perioperative physicians but equally desirable in the perioperative care of high-risk cardiac patients. These include effects on core components of an anaesthetic regimen, such as analgesia, hypnosis, and memory function. Despite overwhelming evidence of benefit, beta-AAs are currently under-utilized in the perioperative period because of concerns of potential adverse effects and toxicity. The effects of acute administration of beta-AAs on cardiac function in the compromised patient and strategies to counteract potential adverse effects will be discussed in detail. This may help to overcome barriers to the initiation of perioperative treatment with beta-AAs in a larger number of high-risk cardiac patients undergoing surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11882098
To compare the pharmacotherapeutic approaches to diabetic hypertension of family physicians (FPs) and general practitioners (GPs).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11884971
To examine the compliance to medication among newly diagnosed hypertensive patients screened from the general population of the Seychelles, a rapidly developing country.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11888754
This prospective randomized study aims at evaluation and comparison of the prophylactic effects of amiodarone versus digoxin and metoprolol combination in postcoronary bypass atrial fibrillation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11889011
beta-Blockade improves survival when administered over a long period of time to patients with heart failure. However, the time course of any possible deterioration during the titration phase has not been reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11890356
In liver cirrhosis, increased resistance to portal blood flow is the primary factor in the pathophysiology of portal hypertension. The recognition of a dynamic component in hepatic resistance due to the active-reversible contraction of different elements of the portohepatic bed, has led to the active development of hepatic vasodilators. On the other hand, a significant increase in portal blood flow caused by arteriolar splanchnic vasodilation and hyperkinetic circulation, aggravates portal hypertension and provides the rational for the use of splanchnic vasoconstrictors, such as beta-blockers, vasopressin derivatives and somatostatin and its analogs. This review covers current developments in the treatment of portal hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11895062
To review the literature assessing the differences in response to angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and beta-blockers in black patients compared with the response in non-black patients in the management of systolic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11899501
Current guidelines recommend drugs which reduce neurohormonal activation as standard therapy for heart failure: angiotensin converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers and spironolactone. The Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) tested the efficacy of the angiotensin-receptor blocker valsartan in addition to prescribed therapy. A total of 5010 patients with heart failure of NYHA class II, III or IV were randomly assigned to receive 160 mg of valsartan or placebo twice daily. Further angiotensin antagonism by valsartan did not improve survival but was beneficial in terms of morbidity and mortality, because of reduced rate of hospitalization, significant improvements in NYHA class, ejection fraction, signs and symptoms of heart failure, and quality of life. Valsartan had highly favourable effects in patients not receiving ACE inhibitors but an adverse effect in patients receiving both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers. The effects of adding valsartan are depending on the importance of previous neurohormonal inhibition.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11903031
Recent studies suggest that perioperatively administered beta-blockers may reduce the risk of adverse cardiac events in patients undergoing major noncardiac surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11903524
To evaluate the efficacy of topiramate in the preventative treatment of episodic migraine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11907634
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11910301
Our aim was to determine if gene polymorphisms in the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) were related to the degree of change in left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) during antihypertensive treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11910315
Hypertension guidelines recommend initial treatment with a beta-blocker or diuretic and adding the other drug where blood pressure is not controlled. We hypothesized that systematic rotation through the major classes of antihypertensive drugs would demonstrate substantial differences in the pattern of an individual patient's response, and suggest a more rational approach to choosing best treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11910343
Postprandial increases in portal pressure may influence esophageal variceal rupture. The effects of chronic propranolol and octreotide (100 and 200 microg subcutaneously in a single dose) on postprandial hemodynamics were evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11912816
The goal of treatment of type 2 diabetes is to treat early and balance the risk/benefit ratio of aggressive therapeutic intervention for the patient. The results of the UKPDS trial have shown that treatment to improve overall glucose control significantly reduces the risk of microvascular complications and thereby improves the quality of life for persons with diabetes. Optimal medical management includes a team approach and uses continuous communication and education, medical treatment, lifestyle modifications, and behavior changes to improve glycemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11913603
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11916185
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11918251
In a prospective trial assessing the effects of beta-blockers on sexual function men with coronary heart disease were randomized to a 4 month treatment with sustained release metoprolol 95 mg or placebo. A standardized and validated self-report questionnaire (KEED = Klner Erhebungsbogen der Erektilen Dysfunktion) dealing with several aspects of sexual performance in men had to be answered at the beginning and at the end of the study. Based on 65 patients completing the study, sex life seemed unaffected by metoprolol treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11923805
Recent data suggest that beta-blockers can be beneficial in subgroups of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). For metoprolol and carvedilol, an increase in ejection fraction has been shown and favorable effects on the myocardial remodeling process have been reported in some studies. We examined the effects of bisoprolol fumarate on exercise capacity and left ventricular volume with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and applied a novel high-resolution MRI tagging technique to determine myocardial rotation and relaxation velocity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11926017
The aims of MC'95 were to verify i) whether the main risk factors for coronary heart disease had been recorded in the hospital medical records of patients admitted for coronary events; ii) how modifiable risk factors had been managed by drug therapy and lifestyle advices following hospitalization; iii) whether first-degree blood relatives of patients had been screened for coronary heart disease risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11927206
Consumers of outcomes research may assume that risk-adjustment procedures based on patients' comorbid conditions will control for baseline prognostic differences between comparison groups, so that differences in risk-adjusted outcomes represent effects other than those due to differences in comorbidity severity. However, surgeons may differ in their threshold to operate on patients with different intensities of the same comorbidity, which may not be accounted for using commonly employed risk-adjustment methods. We developed a model to explore the effect that selection based on comorbidity severity could have on estimates of the risk-adjusted relative risk (RR) of operative death. Larger effects on the apparent RR of operative death were observed when both the proportion of patients in the high-risk ("selected") stratum and the relative increase in the risk of death due to being in the high-risk stratum were large. Biased estimates of the risk-adjusted RR of operative death will be observed if surgeons differentially select patients based on comorbidity severity and if differences in comorbidity severity are not captured by the risk-adjustment methodology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11927527
Underrepresentation of women in heart failure clinical trials has limited conclusions regarding the effect of various management strategies on survival in women with heart failure and decreased left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11927787
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11937178
Blood pressure reduction achieved with beta-blockers and diuretics is the best recorded intervention to date for prevention of cardiovascular morbidity and death in patients with hypertension. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is a strong independent indicator of risk of cardiovascular morbidity and death. We aimed to establish whether selective blocking of angiotensin II improves LVH beyond reducing blood pressure and, consequently, reduces cardiovascular morbidity and death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11937179
The most suitable antihypertensive drug to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with hypertension and diabetes is unclear. In prespecified analyses, we compared the effects of losartan and atenolol on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11938776
To compare the efficacy of native carvedilol(Cv) with native atenolol(At), we treated 80 cases of essential hypertension(stage I-II) for 4 weeks, using both open-test and double blind randomized imitative methods. The daily dose of carvedilol was 10 mg to 40 mg, and that of atenolol was 50 mg to 100 mg. Both drugs were given once daily. Out of 30 cases of Cv group, carvedilol showed significant efficiency in 20 cases, and was effective in 6 cases. The total therapeutic efficiency was 86.2% (26/30). In the double blind groups(25 patients in each group), those treated with carvedilol(Group A) had 21 effective cases(84.0%) while those treated with atenolol(Group B) had 18 effective cases(72.0%). A lower incidence of adverse effects was observed in carvedilol group. Dizziness occurred similarly in both drugs, but it lasted only a short time and could be tolerated. The recommended dose of 10-30 mg once daily would be appropriate. After treatment there was a significant reduction in blood pressure in both groups(P < 0.01). It suggests that native carvedilol is a safe and effective anti-hypertensive agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11940545
Baroreflex sensitivity declines with age, creating a fall in systolic blood pressure and pulse pressure when standing. If, in addition, blood pressure is reduced as a result of antihypertensive medication, compensatory mechanisms may be inadequate and orthostatic problems may occur. This may be less true in patients on beta-blockers. beta-blockers cause pressor effects in standing patients with autonomic neuropathy, but their effects on standing pulse pressures in elderly subjects with mild hypertension have not been systematically studied.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11941903
To describe the use of antihypertensive drugs in a random sample of adults living in Porto, Portugal, and to identify gender differences in the treatment of hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11950447
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11957798
Patients with severe systolic heart left ventricle dysfunction determine a group loaded by high mortality. Continuous search for prognostic factors as well as treatment methods influencing a prognosis coming from clinical effects of applied prescriptions and survival in the mentioned group of patients can be observed in many published reports. In the presented work a retrospective analysis has been performed with regard to 106 patients with severe heart lesion: 72 cases with ischaemic disease, 20 cases with post-inflammation heart lesion, 7 cases with hypertension and 7 cases with idiopathic congestive cardiomyopathy. The main criterion including particular patient into the group under analysis was less or equal to 30% ejection fraction confirmed by echocardiographical examination and generally understand heart insufficiency in the clinical examination and laboratory tests. The observation period concerning patients qualified to the analyzed group incorporated 36 +/- 16.5 months. Influence of the parameters obtained from clinical, electrocardiographical, Holter monitoring, chest X-Ray, and serum concentration of both sodium (Na) and potassium (K) have been analyzed. Also the survival analysis has been performed for patients treated: according standard procedures, with addition of beta-adrenolytic drug, with addition of amiodaron, with addition of combination of both beta-adrenolytic drug and amiodaron. During the observation 64 patients have died (60%), 4 patients have had heart transplantation (Htx) performed (4%) and 38 patients survived without necessity of Htx (36%). Among investigated parameters there were following ones which proved their statistical significance in terms of prognosis evaluation: ejection fraction, features of pulmonary haemostasis, HR (heart rate), SBP (systolic blood pressure), serum concentration of both sodium (Na) and potassium (K). Much better therapy effects as well as longer survival have concerned patients with hypertension disease confirmed during the anamnesis. Comparison of the survival curves referring to the patients treated according to different schemes a positive trend in the direction of survival improvement has been observed. This trend however appeared in the group treated additionally with beta-blocker and only in the outpatient follow-up. On the other hand a combination of both beta-blocker and amiodaron has been connected with improved both early and outpatient follow-up survival. The survival curves for patients treated with amiodaron only has been quite similar as in the case of patients treated according standard procedures. Addition of beta-adrenolytic drug or amiodaron or eventually both of these medicines has a significant influence into decrease of repeated hospitalizations in the group under investigation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11959051
the incidence and prevalence of patients with advanced heart failure is increasing worldwide and the number of cardiac transplantations remains limited.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11959238
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11960591
Heart failure in blacks is a unique malady characterized by a different natural history, more worrisome prognosis, and potential variances in the response to current medical therapy for heart failure. The overwhelming burden of hypertension as a putative cause of left ventricular dysfunction identifies this illness. Although differences in the response to medical therapy have been described, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers remain the most appropriate therapy. Certain genetic polymorphisms may exist that explain the observed differences.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11967798
In spontaneously hypertensive rats resistance artery structure, endothelial dysfunction and geometry-independent wall stiffness were reduced by an angiotensin AT(1)-receptor antagonist. In previous studies of human hypertension, interruption of the renin-angiotensin system corrected small artery structure and endothelial dysfunction, whereas the beta-blocker atenolol did not. We hypothesized that the AT(1)R antagonist losartan, but not the beta-blocker atenolol, would reduce stiffness of gluteal subcutaneous small arteries in essential hypertensive patients. Seventeen untreated mild essential hypertensive patients (47+/-2 years; 75% male) were randomly assigned in double-blind fashion to losartan or atenolol treatment for one year. Small, resistance size arteries were studied on pressurized myographs. Blood pressure (mmHg) was reduced (p<0.01) from 145 +/- 4/101 +/- 2 and 147 +/- 6/98 +/- 2 to 128 +/- 4/86 +/- 2 and 131 +/- 3/84 +/- 1 by losartan and atenolol, respectively. The media/lumen ratio of small arteries was unaffected by atenolol (8.3+/-0.3% before and 8.8+/-0.5% after treatment). In contrast, losartan reduced media/lumen ratio from 8.4+/-0.4% to 6.7+/-0.3% (p<0.01). Whereas isobaric elastic modulus was unaffected by either treatment, geometry-independent stiffness (slope of elastic modulus vs. stress) was reduced from 9.7+/-1.2 to 6.1+/-0.9 (P<0.05) under losartan treatment, but was unchanged by atenolol (8.2+/-1.3 to 7.8+/-0.6). In conclusion, treatment with losartan reduced stiffness and structural alterations of subcutaneous resistance arteries of previously untreated essential hypertensive patients, whereas atenolol failed to do so.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11975770
Verapamil, the oldest calcium-channel blocker, is now being rediscovered and reevaluated in the light of new novel drug delivery systems and new evidence-based trials. Verapamil, a phenylalkylamine, is useful in the treatment of hypertension, stable angina, and narrow QRS supraventricular arrhythmias. This calcium antagonist is effective in both young and old, and both black and white hypertensive patients, and is free of metabolic side effects. Verapamil has a well-documented history as an effective antianginal agent when directly compared with a beta-blocker, and is more effective in reducing myocardial ischemia compared with amlodipine monotherapy. Because of the short half-life of verapamil, drug delivery systems are used to prolong the duration of action. Novel drug delivery systems using encapsulated beads or a modified osmotic pump have been designed to be taken at nighttime to provide maximal blood pressure reduction in the early morning hours and effective 24-hour blood pressure control, and to avoid excessive blood pressure reduction during sleep. The Verapamil in Hypertension and Atherosclerosis Study has documented equivalent effectiveness of verapamil compared with chlorthalidone, but showed superior plaque regression and reduced events in subjects with the greatest plaques with verapamil treatment. The Angina Prognosis Study in Stockholm, comparing verapamil and metoprolol for stable angina, found no difference in total cardiovascular mortality or combined cardiovascular events. Other large ongoing randomized, multicenter trials, including Controlled-Onset Verapamil Investigation of Cardiovascular Endpoints and the International Verapamil-Trandolapril Study, will expand our knowledge of the role of verapamil in the treatment of hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11975823
Glaucoma and ocular hypertension are highly prevalent conditions in individuals over the age of 40 and are commonly seen together in patients with cardiovascular disease. Many of the antiglaucoma medications, when systemically absorbed, affect the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems of patients and can cause cardiovascular toxicity. Such adverse effects are frequently associated with the long-term use of potentially toxic agents in elderly people, who are most prone to chronic eye disease. Moreover, patients may not associate their symptoms with the topical eye medications, and consequently may not report adverse drug effects. Drug-drug interactions can also occur when patients are taking medications for both cardiovascular disease and glaucoma. This review focuses on beta-adrenergic blockers as topical antiglaucoma medications and other topical antiglaucoma drugs. The systemic toxicity of these agents is reviewed, along with the possible drug interactions. Brief mention is also made of other antiglaucoma medications used alone and in combination with topical beta-blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11975837
A retrospective cohort study based on claims and medical chart data was conducted to compare healthcare use and costs in congestive heart failure patients with and without carvedilol. Adult patients with a minimum of two claims with a valid congestive heart failure diagnosis from 1997 to 1999 were included. Patients receiving continuous carvedilol treatment for at least 4 months were considered study case patients. Case patients were matched based on age, gender, race, and concomitant medication. Healthcare use and costs were compared between the case and control groups. A total of 128 case and 147 control patients were identified. There were no significant differences in demographic characteristics, concomitant medication, or New York Heart Association classification between these two groups. Analysis of variance and chi-square analyses were conducted for continuous and categorical variables, respectively. Statistical adjustments were made using a multivariate model. Carvedilol had a significant economic reduction in the overall expenditures by approximately $14,530. Facility expenditures were approximately $9,000 lower for the carvedilol group than for the control group. Carvedilol-treated patients had less frequent hospital admissions and shorter lengths of stay compared with patients not receiving carvedilol. Congestive heart failure patients receiving carvedilol have significantly less healthcare use and costs than patients not receiving carvedilol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11978956
This study tested the hypothesis that metoprolol reduces the restenosis rate after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in native coronary arteries as compared to placebo. Apart from prognostic clinical effects in the treatment of patients with coronary heart disease, several in vivo and ex vivo studies have demonstrated antiproliferative and antiatherogenic effects of beta-blockers. In the present study, 192 male patients were randomized in a double-blind fashion to metoprolol sustained-release treatment or placebo starting at least 1 day before angioplasty. Lesion diameters and restenosis rates were evaluated using automatic edge detection systems. The study endpoint was the angiographic restenosis rate 4 months after PTCA. Ninety-seven randomized patients had a control angiography a mean of 4.5 months after PTCA. Dropouts were evenly distributed between the metoprolol and placebo groups. Lumen loss in the target lesion was 0.36 mm in the metoprolol group and 0.32 mm in the placebo group. Restenosis rates averaged 57.5% in the metoprolol group and 44.2% in the placebo group using conventional restenosis criteria. Taking metoprolol serum levels above 50 mmol/l as an indication of definite compliance with the metoprolol treatment, the restenosis rate was 58.3%. In conclusion, 95 mg of sustained-release metoprolol failed to reduce the restenosis rate following angioplasty in native coronary arteries.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11981397
To determine patient characteristics and effectiveness of therapy for migraine-associated dizziness.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11984541
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11986110
To compare the safety and intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy of once-daily travoprost (0.0015% and 0.004%) to twice-daily timolol 0.5%.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11986409
Beta-blocker therapy may improve cardiac function in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. We tested the hypothesis that beta-blocker therapy produces favorable functional effects in dilated cardiomyopathy by altering the expression of myocardial genes that regulate contractility and pathologic hypertrophy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11992131
Background: Biventricular pacing improves left ventricular dysynchrony, leading to improvement in congestive heart failure symptoms. The extent of placebo effect, the predictors of response and the long term benefits are unknown. Patients and Methods: Forty-five patients with symptomatic congestive heart failure underwent implantation of a biventricular pacing system over a 30-month period (age 65 10 years, 37 men). Patients underwent implantation of a biventricular pacemaker or implantable defibrillator one month or longer after stabilization of congestive heart failure on maximal medical therapy, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in 84% of patients and beta-blockers in 56% of patients. Three patients had New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II heart failure, 34 had NYHA class III and eight had NYHA class IV. Cardiomyopathy was ischemic in 31 patients, dilated in 12 and the result of other causes in two. The left ventricular ejection fraction was 19 5%. Results: Implantation of the biventricular pacing system was successful in 38 of 45 patients (84%). Two patients had successful implantation with a second attempt, and one patient had an epicardial lead implant. Lead dislodgement occurred in four patients, with successful repositioning in all. During a mean follow-up of 10 7 months, the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire quality of life index score improved from 62 16 to 42 22 at one month (P<0.001), but subsequently returned to intermediate levels (55 26 at three months, 48 26 at six months and 56 34 at one year, P=0.50). In seven patients with deferred device activation, quality of life scores also improved by 10 15 points from baseline to one month with VDI 35 pacing, and improved a further 15 20 points with left ventricular lead activation. The mean NYHA class fell from 3.1 0.5 at baseline to 2.7 0.7 at one month (P=0.006) and remained stable thereafter (2.8 0.9 at three months, 2.8 0.9 at six months). Six patients died during follow-up, one patient had a cardiac transplantation and subsequently died, one patient had a successful cardiac transplantation and one patient underwent insertion of a left ventricular assist device. Death occurred due to progressive heart failure in five patients, sudden death occurred in one patient and a noncardiovascular cause resulted in the death of one patient. An analysis of NYHA responders (NYHA class improvement of 1 or more at last follow-up, 44% of patients) and quality of life responders (score improvement of 10 or more at last follow-up, 57% patients) did not show any difference in age, sex, heart failure etiology, QRS width, ejection fraction or baseline NYHA class. Conclusions: Biventricular pacing improves quality of life and NYHA class in patients with advanced heart failure and intraventricular conduction delay. The attenuated benefit seen over time may be related to initial placebo effect or simple dual- chamber pacing, or the natural history of the underlying disease. Identification of patients most likely to respond to biventricular pacing was not possible.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11992888
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11997407
To assess the prognostic impact of autonomic activity, as reflected by catecholamines and heart rate variability (HRV), in patients with stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12003701
Several studies have suggested that antihypertensive treatment may promote cancer through unknown mechanisms. Early retrospective studies implicated reserpine in breast cancer, but data from prospective studies and meta-analysis of several case-controlled studies showed only a weak association between reserpine and breast cancer which, although statistically significant, is of little clinical concern. Data from case-controlled studies and several cohort studies suggested an association between the use of a diuretic and the occurrence of renal cell cancer, particularly in women. A recent study showed an association between the use of a diuretic and the occurrence of colon cancer. Several prospective studies showed that treatment with atenolol may increase mortality from malignancy. However, other studies that analyzed data from several thousand patients could not confirm this association. In three prospective and a few case-controlled studies, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were not associated with increased mortality from malignancy. In addition, a recent retrospective study showed that long-term use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors had a protective effect against malignancy. Data from three large case-controlled studies and the combined data from eight randomized controlled studies and seven longitudinal studies showed a similar risk for malignancy among users and nonusers of calcium antagonists. Until further data from prospective clinical trials are available, we advise caution about long-term diuretic therapy in women. With regard to other antihypertensive drug classes, we suggest continuing the management of hypertension according to current treatment guidelines with little fear of any substantial cancer risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12003704
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12007080
Beta blockers have long been used in patients who have experienced a myocardial infarction. However, many new therapies are available for this patient group, and as a result, the current role of beta blockers may have become uncertain. In this article we address a series of questions related to the important and continuing role of beta blockade after myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12007683
Most episodes of myocardial ischemia in patients with known coronary artery disease (CHD) are asymptomatic. Silent myocardial ischemia (SMI) is an important predictor of adverse outcome in patients with proven coronary artery disease. beta-blockers are effective in suppressing ischemia, and improve clinical outcome in patients with coronary artery disease. At present, it is common practice to stop treatment with beta-blockers in clinically asymptomatic patients after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) and/or myocardial re-vascularization (PTCA/Stent), although the possible presence of SMI/inducible ischemia after myocardial re-vascularization is not known. We examined 56 asymptomatic CHD patients after coronary artery bypass graft (n=36), percutaneous coronary angioplasty PTCA/stent (n=15), or both (n=5); therapy with beta-blockers was stopped in all of them after myocardial revascularization. All these patients underwent a dobutamine stress echocardiography test (DSE test). The DSE test was proposed to these asymptomatic CHD patients to investigate the possible presence of SMI/inducible ischemia after myocardial re-vascularization. All patients had history of myocardial infarction or evidence of mildly impaired left ventricular function at rest as assessed by cardiac catheterization. Abnormal DSE studies occurred in eight of the 56 patients (14%; 95% C.I.: 6-26%). Therapeutic approaches specifically targeted at reducing total ischaemic burden include pharmacologic therapy and myocardial revascularization. On the basis of these data, it can be concluded that asymptomatic CHD patients after myocardial re-vascularization must be re-evaluated to rule out SMI/inducible ischemia that can be treated (e.g. with beta-blockers) reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12008178
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12010943
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12012149
To estimate and examine the incidence and determinants of initiation of migraine-prophylactic therapy as well as the corresponding drug of choice over a period of 5 years following the use of specific abortive migraine drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12015475
Levosimendan is a new inotropic and vasodilator agent. The inotropic effect is mediated by calcium concentration-dependent conformational changes in troponin C during systole leading to sensitization of the contractile apparatus to calcium ions. The vasodilator effect is mediated by opening potassium channels on vascular smooth muscle. It has a complex pharmacokinetic profile, with a long-acting metabolite that has hemodynamic effects persisting for approximately 1 week. Although it is absorbed orally, it has been developed only for intravenous use thus far. The hemodynamic effects are not reduced and may be enhanced in the presence of beta-blockers, possibly an important attribute when dealing with exacerbation of heart failure caused by or in the presence of beta-blockers. More patients with heart failure have participated in randomized controlled trials of levosimendan than of any other intravenous inotropic agent. Experience with its use after cardiac surgery is limited. Preliminary observations suggest that hemodynamic changes are associated with symptomatic benefit and a reduction in morbidity and mortality in patients with severe heart failure caused by left ventricular systolic dysfunction, compared with placebo in one study and dobutamine in another. Levosimendan may be the first inotropic agent that it is both safe and effective in altering clinical outcomes relevant for patients. Part of this benefit may be achieved because levosimendan allows other inotropic agents that may have adverse effects on patient outcome to be avoided. Further research is required to confirm whether levosimendan reduces mortality and morbidity compared with a placebo and when administered repetitively. If it does, it may become routine therapy for the treatment of severe heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12016631
Ventricular arrhythmias are nearly universally present in patients with advanced congestive heart failure (CHF) and represent an important cause of mortality in these patients. One of the putative mechanisms for the salutary effects of beta-blockers on sudden death mortality in heart failure is their ability to suppress ventricular arrhythmias. However, supporting data in patients with CHF are sparse, especially in the setting of excessive neurohumoral activation associated with symptomatic decompensated heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12019280
Although resistant hypertension affects a minority of all hypertensives, this group continues to experience disproportionately high cardiovascular event rates despite newer antihypertensive agents. Hypertension represents an imbalance of hemodynamic forces within the circulation, usually characterized by elevated systemic vascular resistance. We studied the utility of serial hemodynamic parameters in the selection and titration of antihypertensive medication in resistant hypertensive patients using highly reproducible noninvasive measurements by thoracic bioimpedance. Resistant hypertension patients (n=104) were randomized to drug selection based either on serial hemodynamic (HD) measurements and a predefined algorithm or on drug selection directed by a hypertension specialist (SC) in a 3-month intensive treatment program. Blood pressure was lowered by intensified drug therapy in both treatment groups (169+/-3/87+/-2 to 139+/-2/72+/-1 mm Hg HD versus 173+/-3/91+/-2 to 147+/-2/79+/-1 mm Hg SC, P<0.01 for systolic and diastolic BP), using similar numbers and intensity of antihypertensive medications. Blood pressures were reduced further for those treated according to hemodynamic measurements, resulting in improved control rates (56% HD versus 33% SC controlled to </=140/90 mm Hg, P<0.05) and incremental reduction in systemic vascular resistance measurements. Although the number of patients taking diuretics did not differ between groups, final diuretic dosage was higher in the hemodynamic cohort. Our results demonstrate superior blood pressure control using a treatment algorithm and serial hemodynamic measurements compared with clinical judgment alone in a randomized prospective study. Our measurements of thoracic fluid volume support occult volume expansion as a mediator of antihypertensive drug resistance and use of impedance measurements to guide advancing diuretic dose and adjustment of multidrug antihypertensive treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12020488
This prospective study tested the impact of beta-blocker treatment on currently used risk predictors in congestive heart failure (CHF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12021225
Thrombin generation is critical to the formation of an arterial thrombus after rupture of an atherosclerotic plaque. In patients with stable coronary disease receiving standard medical therapy, we evaluated the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and safety profile of DX-9065a, a novel small-molecule anticoagulant that directly, selectively, and reversibly inhibits factor Xa.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12022239
Our aim was to determine whether the aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) -344 C/T polymorphism was associated with the blood pressure (BP)-lowering response to antihypertensive treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12023696
The aim of the Nordic Diltiazem (NORDIL) Study was to compare patients with essential hypertension receiving calcium-antagonist-based treatment with diltiazem and similar patients receiving conventional diuretic/beta-blocker-based treatment, with respect to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12027785
Migraine is a recurrent clinical syndrome characterised by combinations of neurological, gastrointestinal and autonomic manifestations. The exact pathophysiological disturbances that occur with migraine have yet to be elucidated; however, cervico-trigemino-vascular dysfunctions appear to be the primary cause. Despite advances in the understanding of the pathophysiology of migraine and new effective treatment options, migraine remains an under-diagnosed, under-treated and poorly treated health condition. Most patients will unsuccessfully attempt to treat their headaches with over-the-counter medications. Few well designed, placebo-controlled studies are available to guide physicians in medication selection. Recently published evidence-based guidelines advocate migraine-specific drugs, such as serotonin 5-HT(1B/1D) agonists (the 'triptans') and dihydroergotamine mesylate, for patients experiencing moderate to severe migraine attacks. Additional headache attack therapy options include other ergotamine derivatives, phenothiazines, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents and opioids. Preventative medication therapy is indicated for patients experiencing frequent and/or refractory attacks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12028187
Glaucoma can be considered a disease of the aging eye. Most medications used to treat glaucoma are in topical eyedrop form and may cause numerous untoward systemic effects in older persons. In recent years, several new ocular hypotensive medications have become available. These medications are being used more commonly because there is a growing trend by ophthalmologists to aggressively lower intraocular pressure. Therefore, geriatricians require a comprehensive knowledge of medications used to treat glaucoma, in addition to an understanding of their mechanism of action profiles of untoward effects and possible interactions with other diseases or medications. Therefore, we performed a review of the medications recently introduced into clinical practice. We selected drugs approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration between 1996 and September 2001. The safety profiles of these agents and their untoward side effects were reviewed by class: topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (brinzolamide: ocular tolerance, taste perversion), beta-adrenoceptor antagonists (timolol: bradycardia and bronchospasm), alpha-adrenergic agonists (brimonidine: oral dryness, headache, and fatigue), and prostaglandin analogs (latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, and unoprostone isopropyl: ocular hyperemia, iris color changes). The function of this review is to make geriatricians more aware of the efficacy and untoward effects of medications recently introduced into clinical practice. We recommend that geriatricians perform a medication review on all medications their patients use, including eye drops.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12029205
Both myocardial m-[123I]iodobenzylguanidine (123I-MIBG) uptake and plasma norepinephrine are markers of sympathetic activation in heart failure and have been shown to portend a poorer prognosis. However, these observations were noted before treatment with beta blockers became part of standard clinical practice. Fifty-eight patients with chronic heart failure (New York Heart Association functional class II and III, ejection fraction <35%; 53% ischaemic cardiomyopathy) were prospectively studied with a mean follow-up of 36 months. During the observational period, 17 patients (29.3%) had a predefined event (death and heart transplantation). All prognostic parameters were obtained before beta blocker therapy was initiated. In both uni- and multivariate analysis, the heart-mediastinum ratio of 123I-MIBG uptake did not correlate with cardiovascular mortality. In the multivariate Cox regression analysis, plasma norepinephrine, peak oxygen consumption, end-diastolic volume as measured by echocardiography and exercise performance during bicycling and walking had prognostic significance in patients with heart failure treated with beta blockers in addition to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12031741
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12034151
To examine the ability of myocardial contractile reserve (MCR) assessment to predict the improvement of left ventricular ejection fraction with treatment by carvedilol, a prospective study was undertaken in 85 patients with chronic heart failure and left ventricular ejection fraction < 45%. Low dose dobutamine echocardiography (DSE), a 6-min walk test and measured brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) were assessed in all the patients. Patients were separated into two groups. Group A were patients without any myocardial reserve and group B patients with a myocardial contractile reserve defined as an increment of more than 20% of the resting left ventricular ejection fraction during dobutamine infusion. The two groups differed for percentage of ischemic cardiomyopathy (67.8 in group A vs. 29.7% in group B P = 0.028), 6-min walk test performance (respectively, 343 vs. 415 meters P < 0.05) and BNP plasma levels (respectively, 184.5 vs. 70.1 P < 0.02) but not for left ventricular ejection fraction or NYHA class. During DSE, MCR and heart rate variation was higher in group B than in group A. At the end of the follow up, LVEF increased and NYHA class decreased in group B but not in group A. In multivariate analysis the existence of MCR could predict the improvement of LVEF with treatment by carvedilol. In our study, studying MCR could help to predict patients who will improve their LVEF with carvedilol prior to the administration of the treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12034158
In large clinical trials both carvedilol and metoprolol have been shown to reduce mortality and morbidity in patients with chronic heart failure. Carvedilol is an adrenoceptor antagonist, which inhibits beta(1)-, beta(2)-, and alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors. Carvedilol has additional metabolic and antioxidant properties. Metoprolol is a selective antagonist of beta(1)-adrenergic receptors. The carvedilol or metoprolol European trial (COMET) is the first study to investigate whether beta-blocking agents with differing pharmacological profiles exert different effects on morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic heart failure. 3029 patients from 15 different European countries were enrolled into COMET and will be followed until 1020 fatal events have been observed, unless the data and safety monitoring committee (DSMC) recommends early termination. The target dose for carvedilol is 25 mg bid and for metoprolol tartrate 50 mg bid. This manuscript outlines the rationale, design and possible outcomes of COMET.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12035874
The choice of antihypertensive treatment should be guided by evidence of a reduction in the risk of cardiovascular (CV) events and therefore improved long-term outcome. Using pre-determined criteria, ten randomised, controlled trials that assessed the effects of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) on CV events in patients with hypertension were identified. Six of them enrolled a relatively small number (< 1500) of hypertensive patients, whereas four of the studies were much larger (> 4500 patients). The smaller studies produced mixed findings, especially those trials where CCBs were compared with diuretics; this may reflect methodological limitations and the impact of random error. The results from the four larger studies produced a consistent message: long-acting CCBs such as nifedipine, administered in a gastro-intestinal-transport-system (GITS) formulation, nitrendipine and diltiazem, reduce CV morbidity and mortality in hypertensive patients. In the one study that specifically enrolled high-risk hypertensive patients, nifedipine GITS was as effective as diuretic therapy in reducing CV events, and in all four larger studies sub-group analyses showed that the benefits of these CCBs extend to hypertensive patients with diabetes. The available evidence supports the use of these long-acting CCBs as a first-line treatment option in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12036665
To evaluate morning vs evening once daily concomitant latanoprost 0.005%/timolol maleate 0.5% therapy in ocular hypertensive or primary open-angle glaucoma patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12037702
The objective of this study was to investigate stay-on-therapy patterns over 3 years among patients prescribed different classes of antihypertensive drugs for the first time. A retrospective analysis of information recorded in the drugs database of the Local Health Unit of Ravenna (Italy) was carried out on 7312 subjects receiving a first prescription for diuretics, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin II antagonists between 1 January and 31 December 1997. Patients were followed up for 3 years. All prescriptions of antihypertensive drugs filled during the follow-up periods were considered. The patients continuing or discontinuing the initial treatment, the duration of treatment, and the doses taken were all calculated, as well as main factors influencing the persistence rate. The drugs prescribed were predominantly ACE-inhibitors, followed by calcium channel blockers, diuretics, beta-blockers and angiotensin II antagonists. A total of 57.9% of patients continued their initial treatment during the 3-year follow-up period, 34.5% discontinued the treatment, whilst 7.6% were restarted on a treatment in the third year. Persistence with treatment was influenced by: age of patient (persistence rate increasing proportionately with advancing years), type of drug first prescribed (persistence rate higher with angiotensin II antagonists, progressively lower with ACE-inhibitors, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and diuretics), gender of patient (persistence was better in males), age of general practitioner (GP) (the younger the GP, the better the persistence rate) and gender of GP (better stay-on-therapy rate with male GP prescribing). In the case of patients treated continuously, mean daily dose increased progressively over the 3 years. With adequate markers, helpful data can be collected from prescription claims databases for the purpose of monitoring the persistence of patients in continuing their medication, and the quality of antihypertensive treatment in a general practice setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12040358
Our purpose was to evaluate the clinical effect of carvedilol among pediatric patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) who did not respond to standard therapy and to assess the pharmacokinetics of carvedilol among these children.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12042891
Antihypertensive medications are used extensively in children despite a paucity of randomized, placebo-controlled trials. This study was among the first randomized, controlled pediatric antihypertensive medication trials, in which the combination drug bisoprolol fumarate/hydrochlorothiazide (B/HT) was compared with placebo. The study comprised a 2-week single-blind placebo screening period, a 6-week double-blind dose titration period, a 4-week double-blind dose maintenance period, and a 2-week double-blind dose-tapering period. One hundred and forty subjects were enrolled to achieve 94 randomized subjects treated either with B/HT ( n=62) or placebo ( n=32). B/HT induced significant reductions compared with placebo for average sitting systolic blood pressure (SiSBP) (9.3 vs. 4.9 mmHg, P<0.05) and sitting diastolic blood pressure (SiDBP) (7.2 vs. 2.7 mmHg, P<0.05). The placebo-subtracted BP reductions were greater in younger children and those with more-severe baseline hypertension. The percentage of subjects with BP less than the 90th percentile at study completion was 45% for B/HT and 34% for placebo ( P=NS). Although the study demonstrated that B/HT reduced BP safely compared with placebo, the large placebo effect and failure of most subjects to achieve target BP control make it uncertain whether B/HT is appropriate first-line therapy for pediatric hypertension, particularly in adolescents with mild-to-moderate BP elevation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12045161
A lifetime mechanical solution for advanced heart failure must be reliable, with a low risk of life-threatening complications. After extensive laboratory testing, we began clinical trials with an axial flow pump for long-term treatment of New York Heart Association class IV, transplant-ineligible patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12045365
Omapatrilat simultaneously inhibits neutral endopeptidase and angiotensin-converting enzyme, increasing levels of vasodilatory peptides while decreasing production of angiotensin II. This study evaluated the clinical effects of withdrawal of omapatrilat after a patient's hypertension had been controlled (seated diastolic blood pressure <90 mm Hg) on omapatrilat for at least 6 months, with or without adjunctive antihypertensive medications. This double-blind study randomized 83 patients to receive either their established omapatrilat dose or placebo for 8 weeks; any concomitant antihypertensive medications were kept constant. Patients continuing on omapatrilat had no change in blood pressure. Patients whose chronic omapatrilat treatment was replaced by placebo had clinically important increases in both systolic (+16.5 mm Hg) and diastolic ((+9.6 mm Hg) blood pressures (both p<0.001). An increase in blood pressure was also seen in patients who were taking adjunctive antihypertensive medications prior to withdrawal of omapatrilat. This study demonstrates that when compared to withdrawal placebo, omapatrilat maintains clinically and statistically significant blood pressure reductions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12047461
This was a phase-IV double-blind equivalence trial designed to assess the efficacy and tolerability of two doses of flunarizine (10 mg o.d.=FLU 10 mg and 5 mg o.d.=FLU 5 mg) in the prophylaxis of migraine, in comparison with slow-release propranolol (160 mg o.d.). A total of 808 subjects were treated in a treatment period of 16 weeks. 142 subjects discontinued the trial prematurely, mainly because of adverse events (n=58). The mean attack frequency in the double-blind period was 2.0 for the FLU 5 mg group, 1.9 for the FLU 10 mg group, and 1.9 for the propranolol group. The mean attack frequency in the last 28 days of the double-blind period was 1.8 for FLU 5 mg, 1.6 for FLU 10 mg, and 1.7 for propranolol. Both flunarizine groups were at least as effective as propranolol (P<0.001 in one-sided test). The percentage of responders (defined as subjects for whom attack frequency decreased by at least 50% compared to run-in) in the last 28 days of the double-blind period was 46% (118/259) for FLU 5 mg, 53% (141/264) for FLU 10 mg, and 48% (125/258) for propranolol. Statistical analysis showed that FLU 10 mg is at least as effective as propranolol (P<0.001) and showed a trend for noninferiority of FLU5 and propranolol (P=0.053). No statistically significant differences between the treatment groups were found for any of the secondary parameters. Overall, 190 subjects reported one or more adverse events during the run-in phase: 54 (20.5%) in the FLU 5 mg group, 76 (27.7%) in the FLU 10 mg group and 60 (22.3%) in the propranolol group. The results of this equivalence trial show that 10 mg flunarizine daily with a drug-free weekend is at least as effective as 160 mg propranolol in the prophylaxis of migraine for all evaluated parameters (one-sided equivalence tests) after 16 weeks of treatment. In addition, 5 mg flunarizine proves to be at least as effective as 160 mg propranolol when looking at the mean attack frequency for both the whole double-blind period and the last 28 days of treatment. However, in the analysis of responders, 160 mg propranolol seems to be slightly better than 5 mg flunarizine. In addition, no significant differences between the three treatments were found with regard to safety: all three treatments were generally well-tolerated and safe.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12047791
Despite years of investigation our fundamental and clinical knowledge of the major public health problem, obesity-hypertension, is relatively meager and certainly inadequate. We are at a loss to explain why the pathophysiological mechanisms of obesity and hypertension are so inextricably intertwined. Adding to this frustration is the inadequacy of the treatment for obesity. Hemodynamically, we recognize that the expanded plasma volume caused by obesity imparts a significant volume overload on the heart, thereby increasing cardiac output, while the hypertension compounds this ventricular stress by an associated pressure overload. Thus, the ventricle has an eccentric as well as a concentric adaptive hypertrophy. Associated with obesity is an increased burden of pressor (e.g., catecholamine, angiotensin II); peptide (e.g., endothelin, insulin, leptin, natriuretic); hormonal (e.g., growth, steroids, thyroid); and neural mechanisms. Further complicating these alterations are electrolytic, lipid, uric acid, and other metabolic factors. Both diseases (obesity and hypertension) are exacerbated by frequently encountered comorbid pathophysiological disorders including atherosclerosis, ventricular dysfunction, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemias, and sleep apnea. To add to these issues, therapy for obesity-hypertension is suboptimal. Behavioral modification (of overweight and obesity) is commonly characterized by recidivism, and pharmacotherapy of obesity is woefully inadequate; the present agents either raise arterial pressure or are fraught with adverse effects. Fortunately, there are no contraindications imparted by obesity that complicate the drug treatment of the associated hypertension. Each of the lifestyle modifications and seven classes of antihypertensive therapy that is discussed herein is done in light of the coexistent hypertension and comorbid diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12049678
Patients with prolonged signal-averaged ECG have four times higher risk for development of atrial fibrillation (AF) after coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). Incidence of AF is reduced, but not eliminated by prophylaxis with beta-blockers. The limitations of prophylaxis with oral beta-blockers may be related to the delayed effect of oral therapy. We performed a pilot study of the efficacy of early intravenous esmolol and an oral beta-blocker regimen for prevention of postoperative AF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12049684
Cheyne-Stokes breathing (CSB) is an abnormal cyclical pattern of respiratory fluctuations observed during sleep in congestive heart failure (CHF) of poor prognosis. We examined the clinical usefulness of CSB screening using the heart rate variability (HRV) data from the ambulatory electrocardiogram.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12053057
Fasting hyperkalemia in patients with end-stage renal failure is a well-documented phenomenon. Both a decreased secretion of insulin and decreased beta-adrenergic receptor sensitivity may take part in this effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12053495
Patients with acute coronary syndromes who are considered ineligible for thrombolytic therapy are at high risk of recurrent ischemia and death. This trial randomized 201 patients to triage angiography in the first 24 hours of hospital admission versus conventional medical care. Of the 165 patients who underwent angiography that was either protocol-driven or on the basis of physician preference, those who underwent angiography within 6 hours of symptom onset had a reduction in early and late adverse events. The rates of in-hospital recurrent ischemia were 15.4%, 15.4%, 17.5%, 32.4%, and 38.5%, respectively (P = 0.01 for trend), and rates of cumulative recurrent myocardial infarction or death were 0%, 12.8%, 10.0%, 11.8%, and 7.7%, respectively (P = 0.48 for trend) for patients who underwent angiography at 0-6, 6-12, 12-24, 24-48, and over 48 hours, respectively from symptom onset. Future trials of invasive versus conservative therapy should focus on performing angiography within 6 hours of symptom onset.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12060055
To estimate the incidence of death and macrovascular complications after a first myocardial infarction for patients with Type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12062733
In a randomized (2:1), double-blinded design study, we studied 25 patients with congestive heart failure (66 +/- 9 years, ejection fraction 30 +/- 7%) before and after 23-week treatment with the beta blocker carvedilol 25 mg twice daily (n = 17) or placebo (n = 8) in addition to standard therapy. Using dynamic positron emission tomography, myocardial perfusion at rest and perfusion reserve after dipyridamole (0.56 mg/kg/min) were measured. Myocardial glucose uptake and plasma levels of catecholamines were also estimated. Carvedilol treatment reduced the rate-pressure product (8,781 +/- 2,672 vs 6,342 +/- 1,346, p <0.01) and improved ejection fraction (29 +/- 7% vs 37 +/- 11%, p <0.001), whereas no changes were observed in the control group. Perfusion at rest was unchanged in the placebo group (0.81 +/- 0.17 vs 0.86 +/- 0.23 ml/g/min, p = NS), whereas the carvedilol-treated group showed a significant reduction (0.88 +/- 0.26 vs 0.75 +/- 0.16 ml/g/min, p <0.05). Dipyridamole-induced hyperemia was significantly reduced after carvedilol treatment (1.51 +/- 0.45 vs 1.31 +/- 0.51 ml/g/min, p <0.001), whereas myocardial perfusion reserve was unaltered. Carvedilol did not alter myocardial glucose uptake (0.33 +/- 0.14 vs 0.32 +/- 0.12 micromol/g/min, p = NS) or the plasma catecholamines levels. We therefore conclude that in patients with congestive heart failure, carvedilol reduced resting and hyperemic perfusion. No effect on glucose uptake or catecholamine levels was observed. The reduced perfusion at rest must reflect reduced perfusion demand and thereby a higher threshold for myocardial ischemia and protection against myocardial damage or malignant arrhythmia. These effects may serve as a pathophysiologic explanation for the reduced mortality in patients with congestive heart failure who receive carvedilol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12067927
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12067934
It has been suggested that patients undergoing acute intervention for coronary syndromes may not receive adequate secondary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12074350
To evaluate the clinical importance of serum hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) concentration, we designed two clinical investigations. The first study analyzed the correlation between serum HGF concentration and clinical arterial stiffness or the vasodilator response to reactive hyperemia in hypertensive patients. The second study investigated the correlation between changes in serum HGF concentration and clinical arterial stiffness or reactive hyperemia during treatment with cilazapril or atenolol. A total of 210 hypertensive patients were analyzed in the first study, and 25 patients with essential hypertension were evaluated in the second study. Pulse wave velocity (PWV), strain gauge plethysmography, and serum HGF concentration were measured in the first study. We also evaluated these factors before and after treatment with either cilazapril (2.0 mg/day) or atenolol (25 mg/day) for 6 months in the second study. Serum HGF concentration was negatively correlated to reactive hyperemia in overall (r = 0.434, P < .0001) and nontreatment (r = 0.452, P < .0001) hypertensive patients. Arterial stiffness was weakly related to serum HGF concentration (P < .05) after adjusting for age and mean blood pressure (BP). By multiple regression analysis, only serum HGF concentration showed a strong independent correlation with reactive hyperemia, age and mean BP with PWV. Moreover, a relationship between endothelium-dependent vasodilation and serum HGF concentration was observed during treatment with cilazapril or atenolol (r = 0.406, P < .005). These results suggest that in evaluation of serum HGF concentration, the forearm vasodilator response to reactive hyperemia and PWV might be useful for managing hypertension in patients who are receiving antihypertensive therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12075254
Although anticoagulation therapy is accepted for most patients with atrial fibrillation, 2 different strategies exist for management of the cardiac rhythm: atrial fibrillation is allowed to persist while the ventricular rate is controlled; and atrial fibrillation is converted, and an attempt is made to maintain sinus rhythm.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12075713
Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type IIa, manifesting as an autosomal dominant trait, consists of medullary thyroid carcinoma, parathyroid adenoma or hyperplasia, and pheochromocytoma. We report our experience of a 42-year-old woman, MEN type IIa with a large bilateral pheochromocytoma, who underwent one-stage bilateral tumor resection under a combined continuous epidural technique with 0.25 per cent bupivacaine and general anesthesia using vecuronium, fentanyl, nitrous oxide, and isoflurane. An initial intra-operative hypertensive response was acceptably controlled by nitroprusside and a beta-blocker but during tumor handling the hypertensive crisis worsened and she developed acute pulmonary edema despite a continuing high dose of nitroprusside infusion. After receiving intermittent i.v. MgSO4 up to 3 g in 15 min, her condition gradually improved and the cardiovascular response was under control throughout the period of tumor handling. Hypotension encountered post-pheochromocytoma resection was treated by volume replacement, metaraminol, CaCl2, and dopamine infusion. The patient's post-operative course was uneventful.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12082488
A critical review of the literature on the effects of antihypertensive drugs on the fetus in pregnant women is presented. The survey covers the alpha-adrenergic receptor agonists, beta-blockers including topical eye medications, alpha-beta blockers, calcium antagonists, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. The lack of data on angiotensin II receptor blockers is noted although effects are considered to be similar to those reported with ACE inhibitors and therefore to be avoided. Analysis of the literature underscores that some antihypertensive drugs can be used safely at certain stages of pregnancy, while others are suspect and to be avoided at all costs. The lack of placebo-controlled studies on the treatment of severe hypertension in pregnancy due to ethical considerations is discussed against the background of the pressing need to treat these women despite the possible deleterious effects of antihypertensive drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12083978
Beta-adrenergic blockade has provided one of the major pharmacotherapeutic advances of the 20th century. Beta-blockers are first-line drugs for the management of systemic hypertension, used alone and in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Drugs in the beta-blocking class have the common property of blocking the binding of catecholamines to beta-adrenergic receptor sites; however, there are significant pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic differences between the individual agents that are of clinical importance. Among these differences are the completeness of gastrointestinal absorption, the degree of hepatic first-pass metabolism, lipid solubility, protein binding, brain penetration, concentration within the cardiac tissue, rate of hepatic biotransformation, and renal clearance of drug and/or metabolites. Long-acting formulations of existing beta-blockers are currently in use, and ultra-short-acting agents are also available. Age, race, cigarette smoking and concomitant drug therapy can also influence the pharmacokinetics of beta-blocking drugs. The wide interpatient variability in plasma drug concentrations observed with beta-blockers makes this parameter unreliable in routine patient management. Despite the pharmacokinetic differences among beta-blockers, these drugs should always be titrated to achieve the desired individual patient response.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12084368
Pulse pressure (difference between systolic and diastolic pressure) is an important prognostic factor for cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in elderly hypertensives. However, data regarding the effect of antihypertensive treatment on pulse pressure (PP) are scarce. In the present study, we evaluate the effect of six classes of antihypertensive drugs on PP in an elderly hypertensive cohort.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12086238
In patients without established cardiac disease, the occurrence of premature ventricular complexes without sustained ventricular tachycardia is more an annoyance than a medical risk, and treatment is not required. In contrast, patients with established heart disease and premature ventricular complexes have a higher likelihood of developing ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation. These patients should be treated with a beta blocker or class I antiarrhythmic drug. Treatment of arrhythmias in pregnant women is rarely needed. When treatment is required, amiodarone should be avoided, and beta blockers should be used with caution, because these agents have been associated with fetal growth retardation. The most important rhythm abnormality in athletes is ventricular tachycardia associated with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. If the presence of the disease is confirmed by echocardiography, beta-blocker therapy is necessary, and these patients should be limited to participation in nonstrenuous sports. Acute arrhythmias in children with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome can be treated with adenosine. Radiofrequency ablation of the accessory pathway can provide long-term control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12090102
Treatment has a definitive impact on mortality in hypertension. The magnitude of blood pressure reduction, the type of drug used and the associated risk factors may modulate the effect of treatment on mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12091004
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12096962
To compare the efficacy and safety of a fixed combination of 0.005% latanoprost and 0.5% timolol maleate administered once daily vs monotherapy with either 0.005% latanoprost once daily or 0.5% timolol twice daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12096985
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12105139
To investigate the relationship between soluble markers of platelet, endothelial and rheological function, and target organ damage and their response to intensified management in a population of middle-age hypertensive patients at high risk of cardiovascular complications, we studied 382 consecutive patients (308 men; mean age, 63 years, SD 8) along with 60 normotensive controls free of cardiovascular disease. Patients were divided into those with target organ damage (TOD; n=107) and those free of end-organ damage. Plasma levels of soluble P-selectin (sP-sel), a marker of platelet activation, and von Willebrand factor (vWF), an index of endothelial damage/dysfunction (both enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), and the rheological indices fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, hematocrit, platelet, and white cell count were measured. In 53 patients, variables were further measured after 6 months of intensified cardiovascular risk management. Patients with TOD had significantly higher vWF, 137 (SD 33) versus 125 (SD 33) IU/dL (P=0.002,) and a greater proportion of smokers, 31% versus 16% (P=0.002). There were no statistically significant differences in plasma viscosity, fibrinogen, hematocrit, white blood cell count, platelet count, or sP-sel between the 2 subgroups. In multivariate analysis, vWF was a significant independent predictor for TOD. After 6 months of intensified management in 53 patients who entered the trial, there were significant reductions in systolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, hematocrit, plasma viscosity, sP-sel, and vWF (all P<0.01) but no significant change in fibrinogen. In conclusion, there is a relationship between TOD and endothelial damage/dysfunction in hypertension. Intensified management results in improvements in hemorheology, endothelial and platelet function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106847
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12107398
In arterial hypertension, left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy (H) is a prognostically relevant target organ damage associated with systolic and diastolic LV dysfunction. The level of LV dysfunction seems to be related to the degree of myocardial fibrosis. Prognosis of hypertensive patients who have LVH regression appears to be improved. Therefore, LVH regression is an important antihypertensive treatment goal. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is implicated in LVH development and myocardial fibrosis in essential arterial hypertension. Early studies in the 80s and 90s have led expectations that angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors could induce greater LVH regression than other antihypertensive drugs at similar blood pressure reduction. In the late 90s, the double-blind randomized controlled PRESERVE trial (Prospective Randomize Enalapril Study Evaluating Reversal of Ventricular Enlargement) has been designed to evaluate whether the ACE inhibitor enalapril was more effective than nifedipine GITS in regressing LVH and improving LV diastolic dysfunction. The PRESERVE study demonstrated a mildly higher antihypertensive effect of nifedipine GITS than enalapril, which required more frequently association with hydrochlorothiazide to control blood pressure. However, at similar level of blood pressure reduction achieved with enalapril and long-acting nifedipine in association with hydrochlorothiazide or atenolol, both antihypertensive treatments showed similar efficacy in LVH regression and LV diastolic filling improvement.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12107422
Noncompliance with antihypertensive therapy is a major problem that hinders successful hypertension management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12107602
To compare the effects of valsartan and atenolol on sexual activity and plasma testosterone in newly diagnosed, previously untreated, essential hypertensive male subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12113643
This review summarises the safety of unoprostone isopropyl (both at the 0.12 and 0.15% concentrations) instilled twice daily in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or ocular hypertension (OH). For unoprostone 0.15%, combined data from two 12-month comparative monotherapy studies are reported, as well as data from three adjunctive therapy studies and two special population studies. With unoprostone monotherapy, most adverse events were mild or moderate and transient in nature. Less than 7% of unoprostone-treated patients discontinued therapy due to an adverse event. The most common adverse events associated with unoprostone were burning/stinging, burning/stinging directly upon drug instillation, ocular itching, and conjunctival hyperaemia. Unoprostone had no clinically notable effects on vital signs, laboratory profiles, or comprehensive ophthalmic examinations. One of 659 unoprostone 0.15%-treated patients had a change in iris colour after 12 months of monotherapy. Except for a higher incidence of burning/stinging and burning/stinging upon instillation, unoprostone was comparable to timolol 0.5% twice daily and betaxolol 0.5% twice daily. No safety concerns were raised with use of unoprostone as adjunctive therapy. Unoprostone had no significant effect on exercise-induced heart rate in healthy subjects or on pulmonary function in patients with mild-to-moderate asthma. The safety profile of unoprostone 0.15% was consistent with published information on the 0.12% formulation. In conclusion, unoprostone has an excellent safety profile in patients with POAG or OH.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12114349
To determine the BP response to the Valsalva maneuver (VM) at baseline and after changes in therapy and to compare this response to the invasively measured pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12116890
The genetic polymorphisms that may affect individual responses to cardiovascular agents are reviewed, and the application of pharmacogenetics to cardiovascular disease management is discussed. Pharmacogenetics is the search for genetic polymorphisms that affect responses to drug therapy. Investigators have found many associations between genetic polymorphisms and responses to cardiovascular drugs. Some of these relationships have been demonstrated in large patient populations, such as patients with ischemic heart disease receiving statins. Study data consistently show a greater response to statins in ischemic heart disease patients with genotypes associated with worse prognoses. Studies of other polymorphisms, such as those in the genes encoding anglotensin-converting enzyme and beta 1-adrenergic receptors, have less consistently found relationships between these variations and cardiovascular drug responses. For gene-drug response associations for which the data are inconsistent, the interaction of multiple polymorphisms in multiple genes coding for proteins affected by drug therapy or influencing drug metabolism may prove to have a greater influence on drug responses than any one polymorphism. Once the polymorphisms that best determine the response to a particular drug are known and tests to rapidly identify these variations are available, individual patients may be screened for genetic polymorphisms before drug therapy is begun and the information used to choose agents with the greatest potential for efficacy and least potential for toxicity. Pharmacogenetics has many possible applications in the drug therapy of cardiovascular diseases. Much more must be learned, however, before pharmacogenetic factors can be routinely incorporated into therapeutic decisions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12116987
Previous guidelines for the management of uncomplicated hypertension in elderly patients have recommended diuretic agents and then beta-blockers. We examined trends in the initial treatment choice for elderly people with hypertension and the effects of a government-sponsored program to publish and disseminate a simplified version of the national guidelines for the treatment of hypertension to all physicians in Ontario, Canada.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12117400
beta-Blocker therapy remains substantially underused in cardiac patients despite its proven mortality benefits. Reluctance to prescribe these agents may derive from concerns about their association with symptoms of depression, fatigue, and sexual dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12117453
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12117460
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12118806
This study compares the ability of two oral amiodarone regimens to reduce the risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) as compared with the placebo among elderly open heart surgery (OHS) patients receiving beta blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12119608
It is almost axiomatic that patients vary widely in their beneficial responses to drug therapy, and serious and apparently unpredictable adverse drug reactions continue to be a major public health problem. Here, we discuss the concept that genetic variants might determine much of this variability in drug response, and propose an algorithm to enable further evaluation of the benefits and pitfalls of this enticing possibility.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12119800
Systemic hypertension is a major public health problem and is perhaps the most common chronic disorder in most societies. Most patients with vascular disease report hypertension in their medical history. Irrespective of the specialty that one practices, every physician will likely encounter patients with systemic hypertension. Unfortunately, an overwhelming number have so-called "primary" or "essential" hypertension for which a cure has yet to be found. Fortunately, excellent therapy is available to control this modern malady. The field of hypertension continues to evolve rapidly, particularly in the field of therapy. During the past two decades, the treatment of hypertension has moved from a cookbook approach to more scientifically based individualized management. This paradigm shift requires the practitioner to acquire sufficient knowledge about individual drugs and how they work in a given patient. Rapid expansion of available drugs has placed a burden on the clinician to keep up with these advances. We hope that the discussions contained herein will ease that burden somewhat and make the treatment options less cumbersome. This article addresses the practical issues related to selection of antihypertensive drugs and provides an overview of advantages and disadvantages of individual drug classes. The reader should also refer to the JNC VI document [1] to further understand the selection of drug therapy based upon compelling indications. The ultimate aim of hypertension management should always be to achieve target or goal blood pressure levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12123401
The clinical implications of the recently revised criteria for diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in patients with suspected acute coronary syndromes are unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12123409
The African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK) is an ongoing trial to evaluate the effect of blood pressure and choice of antihypertensive drug on the rate of decline of renal function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12126264
This multicentre, open-label extension study to four controlled trials involved 888 patients with mild-to-moderate primary hypertension. Patients received telmisartan 40-80 mg once daily with add-on hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ; 12.5-25 mg) if necessary and/or other antihypertensives to achieve diastolic blood pressure (DBP) control (<90 mmHg). Treatment continued for up to 4 years. At treatment end, 578 (65.1%) patients were on telmisartan monotherapy, 106 (11.9%) were on telmisartan + HCTZ 12.5 mg, 101 (11.4%) were on telmisartan + HCTZ 25 mg, and 103 (11.6%) were on telmisartan + another antihypertensive + HCTZ. Overall, 84.4% (746/884) patients achieved DBP control. The highest proportion of responders was in the telmisartan monotherapy (40 or 80 mg) treatment category (89.0% 1,511/574 patients]). The mean change in systolic blood pressure (SBP)/DBP from the previous trial baseline to last available trough was -21.2/-17.3 mmHg with telmisartan alone, -24.6/-16.7 mmHg with telmisartan + HCTZ, and - 18.7/-14.9 mmHg with telmisartan + another antihypertensive +/- HCTZ. Most adverse events were of mild-to-moderate intensity and unrelated to treatment. The proportions of patients discontinuing the study due to adverse events, by treatment at onset, were 7.3% (65/888) with telmisartan monotherapy, 6.6% (20/304) with telmisartan + HCTZ and 2.9% (3/103) with telmisartan + another antihypertensive +/- HCTZ. There were 15 deaths during the study, but none was considered drug related. Thus, telmisartan alone or in combination with other antihypertensives achieved and maintained clinically relevant reductions in DBP and SBP. This long-term analysis supports the favourable efficacy and safety profile of telmisartan both as monotherapy and in combination with other antihypertensive drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12126265
The antihypertensive efficacy of nebivolol and amlodipine and their tolerability were compared in a multicentre, randomized, active-controlled, double-blind parallel-group trial in elderly patients with mild to moderate essential arterial hypertension. One hundred and eighty-four subjects aged > or = 65 years were screened. After a run-in phase of 4 weeks, only 168 of these were randomized with either nebivolol 2.5-5 mg daily (n = 81) or amlodipine 5-10 mg daily (n = 87) over a period of 12 weeks. The response rate to treatment and the changes of sitting diastolic blood pressure (BP) at week 12 were similar between the two groups. A lower sitting systolic BP (SBP) was detected with amlodipine at week 4 (p < 0.05) and at week 8 (p < 0.05). Standing BP showed no changes between the two groups; only SBP was lower with amlodipine at week 8 (p < 0.05). Heart rate was lower at all treatment visits with nebivolol (p < 0.001). The incidence of adverse events was no different between the two groups; however the incidence of headache and ankle oedema was significantly higher with amlodipine (p < 0.05). In elderly subjects with essential hypertension, the antihypertensive efficacy of nebivolol and amlodipine was similar. Both drugs were well tolerated, although amlodipine was accompanied by higher incidence of drug-related adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12131543
To examine the time course of left ventricular (LV) geometric response to blood pressure (BP) control during 2 years of systematic antihypertensive treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12135934
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12140804
Hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate combination (H+ISDN), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and beta-blockers have improved outcomes in heart failure (HF). Analysis of previous trials has shown that H+ISDN appears especially beneficial in African American patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12142116
We performed a post-hoc subgroup analysis in the Metoprolol CR/XL Randomized Intervention Trial in Chronic Heart Failure (MERIT-HF) with the aim of reporting on the heart rate (HR) response during the titration phase and clinical outcomes from the three-month follow-up visit to end of study in two dosage subgroups: one that had reached more than 100 mg of metoprolol CR/XL once daily (high-dose group; n = 1,202; mean 192 mg) and one that had reached 100 mg or less (low-dose group; n = 412; mean 76 mg).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12147929
Little is known about essential hypertension in Hispanic Americans, despite the fact that they are the fastest-growing minority in the United States and have a disproportionate degree of hypertensive target organ damage. The authors studied 89 Caribbean Hispanic hypertensive patients who participated in six double-blind, randomized trials of antihypertensive agents. Demographics, laboratory data, sodium excretion, plasma renin activity, and atrial natriuretic peptide were obtained after 3-4 weeks on placebo. Blood pressure responses to angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), and fixed combinations of ACE inhibitors and HCTZ, were compared to the placebo values after 8-12 weeks of treatment. Patients had a multiple risk factor profile (obesity and diabetes) and a wide spectrum of blood pressure elevation, left ventricular hypertrophy, and hypertensive renal damage. Urine sodium excretion rates indicated inability to comply with salt restriction in 65% of patients. Plasma renin activity was lower than that of Hispanic normotensive controls, and 62% of patients had low-renin essential hypertension by renin profiling to sodium excretion. On analysis of variance, blood pressure reductions by calcium channel blockers, HCTZ, and ACE inhibitor/HCTZ combinations were significantly greater than that with placebo, while those of ACE inhibitors and beta blockers as monotherapy were not. The authors conclude that essential hypertension of Caribbean Hispanics is associated with multiple risk factors and is largely of the low-renin type. Responses to therapy are consistent with those observed in other populations with the low-renin phenotype and suggest salt-sensitivity of blood pressure in this population. Confirmation of the latter has implications for prevention and treatment of essential hypertension in Hispanics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12147937
The Losartan Intervention for Endpoint Reduction trial is one of several end-point trials that are now available with angiotensin-receptor blockers. This trial compared two regimens-losartan-based therapy to atenolol-based therapy-in 9193 hypertensive patients with electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy. In the instance of each of these therapeutic groups, hydrochlorothiazide add-on therapy was permitted as per protocol. Although blood pressures were comparably reduced in both the losartan and the atenolol-based treatment groups, stroke rate was notably less in the losartan-treatment group. The 1195 patient diabetic cohort in this trial also experienced a substantial reduction in total and cardiovascular mortality favoring losartan. An additional finding in this trial was that new-onset diabetes developed 25% less frequently in the losartan-treated group. The results of this trial are both interesting and relevant to what is an expanding use of angiotensin-receptor blockers in the hypertensive population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12149663
This study assessed the percentage of patients after 1 year who persisted on initially prescribed antihypertensive therapy. Medical records of 2416 patients with newly diagnosed hypertension who were prescribed initial antihypertensive monotherapy by general practitioners in Germany, France, and the United Kingdom were evaluated. Comparisons were made among the angiotensin II receptor antagonist (AIIRA) irbesartan, all other antihypertensive classes (including AIIRAs other than irbesartan), and the AIIRA losartan. Patients initiated on the AIIRA irbesartan scored highest with a persistence rate of 60.8%, followed by patients who received all other AIIRA agents with a persistence rate of 51.3%. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium channel blockers, beta-blockers, and losartan were associated with comparable persistence rates, between 42.0% and 49.7%. Patients who received diuretics scored lowest with a persistence rate of 34.4%. Persistence has emerged as an essential factor for blood pressure control. Prescribing an antihypertensive agent that provides a favourable efficacy and tolerability profile may provide greater persistence with therapy and hence a higher level of blood pressure control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12149666
In the Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction (LIFE) study left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy was associated with increased urine albumin/creatinine ratio (UACR) at baseline. To evaluate whether this association was due only to parallel blood pressure (BP)-induced changes we re-examined the patients after 1 year of antihypertensive treatment to investigate whether changes in LV hypertrophy and UACR were related independently of changes in BP. In 7,142 hypertensive patients included in the LIFE study, we measured UACR, LV hypertrophy by electrocardiography, plasma glucose and BP after 2 weeks of placebo treatment and again after 1 year of antihypertensive treatment with either an atenolol or a losartan based regime. At baseline and still after 1 year of treatment logUACR (R = 0.28, P < 0.001) was still correlated to LV hypertrophy (beta = 0.05) assessed by ECG independently of systolic BP (beta = 0.16), plasma glucose (beta = 0.19) and age (beta = 0.08). Change in logUACR (R = 0.19, P < 0.001) during treatment was correlated to change in LV hypertrophy (beta = 0.10) independently of reduction in systolic BP (beta = 0.13) and change in plasma glucose (beta = 0.06). After 1 year of antihypertensive treatment UACR was still related to LV hypertrophy independently of systolic BP, and the reduction in UACR during that first year of treatment was related to regression of LV hypertrophy independently of reduction in systolic BP. This suggests that the relationship between LV hypertrophy and glomerular albumin leakage is not just due to parallel BP-induced changes. As glomerular albumin leakage may represent generalised vascular damage we hypothesise a vascular relationship between cardiac and glomerular damage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12151907
We examined whether clozapine-related weight gain is associated with an increase in mean arterial blood pressure. Weight gain and mean arterial blood pressure changes were assessed in 61 outpatients with schizophrenia who were randomly assigned to either clozapine or haloperidol in a 10-week parallel group, double-blind study and in 55 patients who chose to continue to receive clozapine in a subsequent 1-year open-label prospective study. Clozapine treatment was associated with significant weight gain in the double blind and open-label trials. Haloperidol treatment was not associated with significant weight gain. Neither clozapine nor haloperidol treatment were associated with significant changes in mean arterial blood pressure. There were no significant correlations between weight gain and mean arterial blood pressure change with either medication. Although clozapine treatment is associated with weight gain, the correlation between this weight gain and increases in arterial blood pressure during the first year of treatment appears to be low.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12152252
Essential hypertension is one of the most important risk factors for cardiovascular diseases. Its pathophysiological mechanism is unknown. Recent data suggests that deformability and aggregation of red blood cells may play an important role in the regulation of blood rheology in hypertension. Simultaneously there are reports suggesting that antihypertensive effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) could be counteracted by high doses of aspirin. We postulate that these effects could be related to the changes in blood rheology. Accordingly we designed a study to evaluate the effect of low or high dose of aspirin on deformability and aggregability of red blood cells from patients with essential hypertension. Deformability and aggregability of red blood cells were measured by laser diffractometer (Rheodyn SSD, Myrenne GmbH) and computerized automatic aggregometer (MA1 Myrenne GmbH, Germany), respectively. The effects of aspirin on deformability and aggregation of red blood cells were studied ex vivo in whole blood from three groups of patients with essential hypertension (group I: 10 patients receiving placebo, group II: 23 patients receiving 75 mg/day p.o. aspirin for 3 days, and group III: 23 patients receiving 300 mg/day p.o. aspirin for 3 days). Subjects in all groups received the same combination of antihypertensive agents consisting of: one of ACEI (enalapril or perindopril), one of beta-antagonists (metoprolol or bisoprolol), and diuretic agent (indapamid). In patients receiving high dose of aspirin (300 mg/day) we observed that erythrocyte aggregability was 25% higher than in the placebo group (MEA = 25.8 +/- 6 SD, vs MEA = 20.6 +/- 3 SD, p < 0.05). Aspirin had no effects on deformability of erythrocytes or on arterial blood pressure. High doses of aspirin or possibly also other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) in patients receiving antihypertensive therapy can directly affect rheological properties of the blood due to the activation of red blood cell aggregation. Increased aggregation of red blood cells during antihypertensive therapy may be an important indicator of the worsening of organ perfusion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12167382
Congestive heart failure (CHF) has previously been shown to be associated with insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. A beneficial effect of the non-selective beta-blocker carvedilol has been demonstrated in patients with CHF. However, whether the drug affects the insulin sensitivity (S(i)) is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12167389
Beta-adrenergic blockade is of proven value in chronic heart failure. It is uncertain, however, if beta-blockade provides a similar degree of clinical benefit for heart failure patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) as those in sinus rhythm (SR).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12167390
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of adding the beta-blocker bucindolol to standard therapy shortly after a myocardial infarction in a high-risk population with reduced left ventricular function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12167391
In previous beta-blocker trials, post-myocardial infarction (MI) patients were essentially treated with a beta-blocker or placebo. In the CAPRICORN trial, patients were selected on the basis of a left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) <40% following the index MI and randomised to carvedilol or placebo, in addition to modern secondary prophylaxis with ACE inhibitors, aspirin and statins. In 1959 patients with a mean LVEF of 33%, treatment with carvedilol over a mean follow-up period of 15 months reduced total mortality from 15.3% with placebo to 11.9% with carvedilol [relative risk reduction (RRR) =23%, absolute risk reduction (ARR) =3.4%]. The incidence of recurrent MI was reduced from 5.8 to 2.3% (RRR 41%, ARR 2.3%). The number needed to treat (NNT) to prevent one death was 28 for the entire study period and 43 for 1 year of treatment. The results of the CAPRICORN trial are compared with three previous beta-blocker post-MI trials: the Gothenburg metoprolol trial (GMT), the Norwegian timolol trial (NTT) and the beta-blocker heart attack trial (BHAT). The RRRs for total mortality were 36% in the GMT and NTT, and 27% in BHAT. The respective NNTs for total mortality were 32, 18 and 38. NNT for 1 year of treatment was 25 in NTT and 80 in BHAT. The RRR for recurrent MIs were 28% in NTT and 16% in BHAT. The reduction of mortality and recurrent MIs in CAPRICORN is within the range of previous post-MI beta-blocker studies. In post-MI patients with LVEF<40%, add-on treatment with a beta-blocker should be given >48 h after initiation with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and then with a slow dose escalation as applied in CAPRICORN.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12169866
Labetalol is a commonly used agent for perioperative hypertension in renal transplant recipients. A previous report suggested that labetalol may cause life-threatening hyperkalemia after renal transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12172314
To compare the relationships of treatment-induced reductions of left ventricular hypertrophy to the changes in clinic and ambulatory blood pressure (BP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12172327
To describe and compare the effects of six different antihypertensive medications on cognitive performance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12172328
Dose-ranging of antihypertensive agents have been done to optimize diastolic blood pressure (DBP) reduction, but with little information on systolic (SBP), mean (MBP), or pulse (PP) pressures. A low-dose combination of perindopril (Per) and indapamide (Ind) has been shown to reduce more SBP than atenolol for the same DBP reduction. However, the possible influence of gender on this finding has never been tested.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12172356
Therapy with beta-blocker and nitrate has been reported to improve survival of patients with bleeding esophageal varices and to decrease esophageal rebleeding. However, there is little information available concerning the efficacy of these medications on rebleeding risk and survival in gastric variceal bleeding after initial hemostasis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12175444
To determine the timing and exact nature of the effect of the drug atenolol upon fetal growth. Also to discover if the reduction in fetal growth is due to superimposed pre-eclampsia or any other confounding variable.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12175626
beta-blockers effectively prevent first variceal bleeding (FVB) in cirrhotic patients. In patients with ascites, however, their use might be precluded by a high rate of contraindications and side effects. We compared the efficacy and applicability of nadolol and isosorbide-mononitrate (IsMn) in preventing FVB in a population of cirrhotic patients at high risk of variceal bleeding with ascites, who can be frequently intolerant to beta-blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12182261
Hypertension induces progressive pathologic changes in the arterial wall. Experimental findings suggest that these changes, which include intima-media thickening, may be mediated, at least in part, by angiotensin II (AII).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12195121
To examine the effects on small arteries and on the cutaneous microcirculatory system of nebivolol and atenolol in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12195129
To compare the effects of the angiotensin II antagonist, losartan, with those of atenolol on left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), blood pressure and neurohormone concentrations in hypertensive patients with LVH.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12195132
There has been uncertainty about the risk of new-onset diabetes in hypertensive individuals treated with different blood pressure-decreasing drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12195325
After a first variceal bleeding episode in patients with cirrhosis of the liver, treatment with transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt (TIPS) and endoscopic variceal ligation (EVL) plus propranolol were compared, with regard to prevention of variceal rebleeding, complications, and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12198699
beta-blockers and banding ligation are effective in the prevention of variceal rebleeding. However, the relative efficacy and safety remains unresolved.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12198700
This randomized controlled trial compared variceal band ligation (VBL), propranolol (PPL), and isosorbide-5-mononitrate (ISMN) in the prevention of first esophageal variceal bleed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12201792
The implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) is a therapy for patients at risk of sudden cardiac death due to ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF). But the apparent high cost of ICD therapy relative to antiarrhythmic drugs such as amiodarone has raised questions about the cost effectiveness of ICD therapy versus drug therapy. To inform this debate we reviewed the literature on ICD cost effectiveness. An electronic and manual search was conducted for articles published since 1980 reporting original data on the cost effectiveness of ICD versus drug therapy for patients at risk of VT/VF. Data on costs and life-years gained were abstracted and studies were grouped into those that used decision-analysis models and those that were trial-based analyses. Cost-effectiveness ratios were inflated to 2001 US dollars. Nine studies were included in the review; five studies were modelling studies and four were part of randomised trials of ICD therapy. Studies varied in time horizon, but all except one indicated that ICD therapy was more costly than drug therapy. Early decision models assumed larger survival benefits than those observed in subsequent trials and therefore had attractive incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in the range of dollars US 27000 to dollars US 60000 per life-year gained. Trial-based studies, with the exception of one small trial, indicated cost per life-year gained in the range dollars US 44000 to dollars US 144000. Stratified analysis shows clearly that patients with a greater risk of mortality due to structural heart disease (e.g. left ventricular ejection fraction < or =35%) benefit more from ICD therapy and therefore have a more attractive cost effectiveness ratio than patients at lower risk. ICD therapy is still evolving over time with implant costs declining and device technology improving. Current evidence is that, in selected patients who are at high risk of VT/VF, ICD therapy can be a cost-effective option. Future research should focus on (i) patient selection to optimise benefits for available resources; and (ii) more comprehensive outcome measures to include health-related quality of life.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204014
The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering treatment to prevent Heart Attack Trial reported that treatment initiated with doxazosin compared with chlorthalidone doubled the risk for heart failure in high-risk hypertensive patients (relative risk, 2.04 [95% CI, 1.79 to 2.32]). Patients assigned to doxazosin therapy had a mean in-trial systolic/diastolic blood pressure 3/0 mm Hg higher than that in patients assigned to chlorthalidone. Sixty-eight percent (6167 of 9061) of the former patients and 59% (9081 of 15 256) of the latter patients were given additional medications to achieve a target blood pressure of less than 140/90 mm Hg.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204496
The goal of this study was to evaluate the mortality benefit of beta-blockers after successful percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204500
The goal of this study was to compare myocardial perfusion reserve (MPR) before and after long-term treatment with lisinopril and losartan in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204508
The goal of this study was to investigate whether concomitant therapy with vasoactive medications alters the results of noninvasive assessment of endothelial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204730
The most frequent arrhythmia after coronary artery bypass surgery is atrial fibrillation (AF). The prevention and treatment of this type of arrhythmia is subobtimal. Digitalis, beta-blockers, diltiazem and amiodarone are the preferred drugs for the treatment. This study was designed to compare the effects of preoperatively started digitalis and atenolol in combination and separately, on the incidence of AF that occurs within 7 days following the operation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208417
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12209278
To assess the efficacy and safety of nicardipine in comparison to labetalol in the initial management of severe hypertension in pregnancy. DESIGN. Randomized prospective study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12225716
The Circadian Anti-ischemia Program in Europe (CAPE II) compared the efficacy of amlodipine and diltiazem (Adizem XL) and the combination of amlodipine/atenolol and diltiazem (Adizem XL)/isosorbide 5-mononitrate on exercise and ambulatory myocardial ischemia during regular therapy and after omission of medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12225725
The objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of an angiotensin receptor blocker on left ventricular (LV) structure and function when added to prescribed heart failure therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12227681
Cyclosporin is a powerful stimulator of oxidative stress signaling, leading to TGFbeta production, NO degradation, endothelial dysfunction, hypertension and post-transplant nephropathy. Carvedilol, alpha1-beta-blocker with strong antioxidant activity, may interfere with this chain of events. Therefore, we measured monocyte ecNOS, TGFbeta and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) mRNA level and plasma nitrite/nitrate, 3-nitrotyrosine, an estimate of peroxynitrite, and total plasma antioxidant power in kidney-transplanted patients with post-transplant hypertension, before and after treatment with carvedilol, 25 - 50 mg o.d. orally for 4 months (n = 15). The dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker nifedipine (n = 10) was used as comparator antihypertensive drug. Blood pressure fell to a similar extent with both drugs. Carvedilol increased plasma antioxidant power and HO-1 mRNA and reduced 3-nitrotyrosine and TGFbeta mRNA levels, while the same was not observed with nifedipine. Monocyte ec NOS mRNA levels and plasma nitrite/nitrate were higher in the patients than in a normotensive healthy control group and were unaffected by either treatment. In conclusion, carvedilol reduces the oxidative stress and corrects the altered cellular signaling mediated by oxidative stress in CsA-induced post-transplant hypertension. Therefore, it may prevent long-term complications, such as endothelial dysfunction, fibrogenesis and post-transplant nephropathy by decreasing NO degradation and production of TGFbeta, a key fibrogenic cytokine, and by activating HO-1 production.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12228773
Carvedilol is a medication with both beta-receptor and alpha-receptor blocking properties that has been approved for the treatment of heart failure in adults. Little is known about its safety, efficacy, pharmacokinetics, and dosing profile in children.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12228778
Sudden cardiac death is a prominent feature of the natural history of heart disease. The efficacy of antiarrhythmic drugs and devices in preventing sudden death and reducing total mortality is uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12228852
Several systemic factors have been shown to contribute to the acceleration of large vessel atheroma. Correction of these factors leads to a reduction in the progression of plaque formation and associated arterial wall thickness. Atheroma remains, however, a focal disease, developing at characteristic sites within the arterial tree. These sites are typically at areas of vessel branching or marked curvature, and correspond to regions of high tensile stress and low sheer stress, leading to the hypothesis that local haemodynamic factors and vessel wall mechanics potentiate the focal development of atheroma. Current assessment of vascular haemodynamics suffers from an inability to handle complex flow, and does not allow accurate determination of locally varying flow, and shear stress patterns. The application of computational fluid dynamic (CFD) flow simulation techniques to ultrasound and local pressure data, however, allows a comprehensive, non-invasive appraisal of haemodynamic flow parameters to be performed. The Candesartan cilexetil and Atenolol Carotid Haemodynamic Endpoint Trial (CACHET) study compares the effects of two antihypertensive regimens, one b-blocker-based, the other angiotensin receptor blocker based, on carotid intima-media thickness. The collection of ultrasound and pressure data on each subject provides a unique opportunity to apply these data to the CFD model to study the effects of these antihypertensive regimens on local fluid dynamics. This will lead to a greater understanding of the relationship of these factors to atheroma formation and regression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12229255
In the 80s, randomized clinical studies and overviews have shown that adjunctive therapy with beta blockers can be beneficial post-myocardial infarction (MI). Despite this evidence, the use of beta blockers in the post-MI setting is far from uniform and now lags considerably behind the routine use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) in this clinical setting. Given the major advances in the management of myocardial infarction and its sequelae that have occurred in the last two decades (including the use of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty [PTCA], thrombolysis, aspirin, ACEIs, and statins), there was clearly a need to revisit the issue of beta blocker therapy in patients with beta blockers in the setting of post-MI heart failure. For all these reasons, the CAPRICORN trial of carvedilol in post-MI left ventricular dysfunction was an important and eagerly awaited trial, which could show that carvedilol treatment post-MI on top of the so-called modern post-MI therapy reduces mortality. Further studies have to show whether this results can be repeated with other beta blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12230591
Migraine is a common episodic headache disorder. A comprehensive headache treatment plan includes acute attack treatment to relieve pain and impairment and long-term preventive therapy to reduce attack frequency, severity, and duration. Circumstances that might warrant preventive treatment include: (i) migraine that significantly interferes with the patient's daily routine despite acute treatment; (ii) failure, contraindication to, or troublesome side-effects from acute medications; (iii) overuse of acute medications; (iv) special circumstances, such as hemiplegic migraine; (v) very frequent headaches (more than two a week); or (vi) patient preference. Start the drug at a low dose. Give each treatment an adequate trial. Avoid interfering, overused, and contraindicated drugs. Re-evaluate therapy. Be sure that a woman of childbearing potential is aware of any potential risks. Involve patients in their care to maximize compliance. Consider co-morbidity. Choose a drug based on its proven efficacy, the patient's preferences and headache profile, the drug's side-effects, and the presence or absence of coexisting or co-morbid disease. Drugs that have documented high efficacy and mild to moderate adverse events (AEs) include beta-blockers, amitriptyline, and divalproex. Drugs that have lower documented efficacy and mild to moderate AEs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), calcium channel antagonists, gabapentin, topiramate, riboflavin, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12230635
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12230638
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12230735
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12231591
To investigate the use of antiarrhythmic agents and electrical cardioversion in the management of patients with atrial fibrillation complicating acute myocardial infarction, and their relation to 30 day and one year mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12239942
In patients with cirrhosis pharmacological treatment of portal hypertension using beta-blockers and vasodilators has raised concerns for its potential deleterious effects on renal function and encephalopathy. To clarify this issue we evaluated the effects of propranolol and 5-isosorbide mononitrate or both on subclinical hepatic encephalopathy and renal function in a prospective randomized double-blinded study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12243374
In a quantitative overview of published trials, we investigated whether some pharmacological properties of antihypertensive drugs, besides reduction in blood pressure, explain cardiovascular outcomes in hypertensive or high-risk patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12243636
Drug intervention in placebo-controlled trials has been beneficial in isolated systolic hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12243852
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12269863
Rizatriptan is an orally active serotonin 5-HT(1) receptor agonist that potently and selectively binds to 5-HT(1B/1D) subtypes. Earlier clinical trials demonstrated that rizatriptan 5 or 10mg is more effective than placebo at providing pain relief and a pain-free state, relieving associated symptoms of migraine, normalising functional ability and improving patient quality of life, and showed that rizatriptan provides faster freedom from pain and reduces nausea to a greater extent than oral sumatriptan. More recently, rizatriptan 10mg was shown to be more effective than zolmitriptan 2.5mg or naratriptan 2.5mg at producing a pain-free state 2 hours postdose. Furthermore, compared with naratriptan, significantly more patients who received rizatriptan were pain free or had pain relief from 1 hour onwards. The number of patients with normal functional ability at 2 hours was significantly higher after rizatriptan than after naratriptan or zolmitriptan. Rizatriptan was also generally more effective than zolmitriptan or naratriptan at relieving migraine-associated symptoms. Rizatriptan is generally well tolerated, and adverse events are usually mild and transient. The most common adverse events associated with rizatriptan in recent randomised trials were asthenia/fatigue, dizziness, somnolence and nausea. There was a trend towards a lower incidence of adverse events with rizatriptan compared with zolmitriptan (31.2 vs 38.8%). However, rizatriptan was associated with a significantly higher incidence of adverse events than naratriptan (39 vs 29%). The incidence of chest pain was similar after the administration of rizatriptan, zolmitriptan or naratriptan (2-4%). In conclusion, rizatriptan is an effective drug for the acute treatment of moderate or severe migraine. Oral rizatriptan 5 and 10mg have shown greater efficacy than placebo in providing pain relief, an absence of pain, relief from associated symptoms, normal functional ability and an improvement in patient quality of life. Earlier results showed that rizatriptan provides faster freedom from pain and reduces nausea to a greater extent than oral sumatriptan. More recent studies have shown that rizatriptan 10mg provides faster pain relief and a higher percentage of patients with an absence of pain and normal functional ability at 2 hours than naratriptan 2.5mg or zolmitriptan 2.5mg. The efficacy of rizatriptan is retained when used in the long term, and the drug is generally well tolerated. Although well designed studies comparing rizatriptan with almotriptan, eletriptan and frovatriptan would further define the position of rizatriptan, current data suggest that rizatriptan should be considered as a first-line treatment option in the management of migraine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12296615
The prevalence of both benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and hypertension increases with advancing age. These conditions coexist in almost 25% of men aged 60 years and older. The use of transurethral prostatectomy, a common surgical therapy for BPH, alleviates symptoms but results in erectile dysfunction (ED) in up to 35% of patients. Pharmacological intervention for BPH, including androgen-suppressing agents, has resulted in an increased incidence of sexual adverse experiences compared with the incidence observed in patients receiving placebo. Patients with hypertension also frequently experience problems with sexual function; in addition, antihypertensive medications used to treat this disease may increase problems with sexual function. ED is an age-related phenomenon, with estimated prevalence rates of 39% among men 40 years old and 67% among those 70 years old. Doxazosin, an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of patients with BPH and/or hypertension, is not associated with the occurrence of ED compared with other antihypertensive treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12357261
The control of life-threatening arrhythmias in the prevention of sudden cardiac death has been a long-standing challenge to clinicians. Large-scale, randomized, controlled trials have contributed immensely to our understanding of the management of life-threatening arrhythmias. There are many causes of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, which they occur mostly in the setting of healed myocardial infarction. Available treatments for the management of ventricular arrhythmias include antiarrhythmic drugs, implantable cardioverter defibrillators and catheter ablation. Each therapy provides unique advantages for selected patients with life-threatening arrhythmias. Because the goal of arrhythmia management is not only to provide the single best therapy but to provide the greatest assurance of symptomatic arrhythmia control, the use of combined therapy has become a standard treatment strategy for patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias. This review will discuss the different modes of treatment available for the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, and their potential risks and benefits. The rationale for using hybrid or combination therapy will be presented. Finally, some of the better-known primary and secondary prevention trials for treatment of ventricular tachycardias will be reviewed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12358202
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12359989
The cytochrome P450 CYP2C9 enzyme (CYP2C9) metabolizes many clinically important drugs, for example, phenytoin, warfarin and the angiotensin II type 1 (AT(1)) receptor antagonists, losartan and irbesartan. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the CYP2C9 gene result in the expression of three important variants, CYP2C9*1(wild-type), CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3, the last two exhibiting reduced catalytic activity compared with the wild-type. The CYP2C9 genotype is known to determine sensitivity to and dose requirements for both warfarin and phenytoin, and also the rate of metabolism of losartan. However, its influence on clinical response to treatment with the AT(1) receptor antagonist, irbesartan, has not been investigated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12360462
Patients who have had one variceal bleed are at high risk of rebleeding. Since its introduction, endoscopic variceal banding has been shown to be superior to needle sclerotherapy. Banding has not been compared with hepatic venous pressure-guided medical therapy (beta-blockers and nitrates).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12365089
The aim of this study was to assess both the clinical usefulness and the economical efficiency of an in-hospital workup for patients with uncontrolled arterial hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12365906
To compare bimatoprost with timolol maleate in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12368928
Relatively little is known about the prevalence of cardiac risk factors, the use of noninvasive testing and the medical management of younger women (younger than 45 years of age) undergoing evaluation for chest pain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12372580
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12374234
The combination of tailored TIPS with vasoactive drugs might allow reduction of the rate of subsequent shunt-related sequelae.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12381236
Heart failure is predominantly a disease of the older person with half of all patients with the condition aged >75 years. Diuretics are the first-line symptomatic treatment for heart failure. beta-blockers should be initiated on an outpatient basis once the patient is stable, euvolaemic (by means of a diuretic) and established on an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. Large trials have demonstrated the beneficial effects of the beta-blockers carvedilol, metoprolol and bisoprolol in patients with heart failure, most of whom were also receiving ACE inhibitors. However, the mean age of patients in these trials was generally 60 to 65 years, with very few patients aged >75 years being recruited. It is, thus, not immediately clear how to apply these trial results to older patients with heart failure. Subgroup analyses from these large beta-blocker heart failure trials suggest that older patients gain similar benefit from beta-blocker treatment to younger patients. The trials, however, give no guidance as to whether older patients should receive the same target dosage or titration regimen as younger patients. It is suggested that a less aggressive titration regimen may be more appropriate for older patients while still attempting to achieve the trial target dosages. Titration can be safely achieved on an outpatient basis. In particular, a period of observation in the clinic after initiation of treatment does not appear to be necessary. The survival benefit resulting from the use of a beta-blocker in patients with heart failure is modest (months rather than years). It is, thus important not to neglect the effects of treatment on quality of life. A proportion of patients experience adverse effects with a beta-blocker. For such patients a balance needs to be made between the adverse effects on quality of life and the likely extension of life from the use of a beta-blocker. For patients who can tolerate a beta-blocker, the available evidence suggests that it can improve quality of life. The evidence currently available does not support the use of an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) in addition to an ACE inhibitor and beta-blocker. For patients unable to tolerate an ACE inhibitor or beta-blocker, the use of an ARB may confer some advantage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12383572
We compared the hemodynamic effects of dobutamine and enoximone administration before and after long-term beta-blocker therapy with metoprolol or carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure (HF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12384991
Left ventricular (LV) remodeling and heart failure (HF) complicate acute myocardial infarction (AMI) even weeks to months after the initial insult. Apoptosis may represent an important pathophysiologic mechanism causing progressive myocardiocyte loss and LV dilatation even late after AMI. This review will discuss the role of apoptosis according to findings in animal experimental data and observational studies in humans in order to assess clinical relevance, determinants, and mechanisms of myocardial apoptosis and potential therapeutic implications. More complete definition of the impact of myocardiocyte loss on prognosis and of the mechanisms involved may lead to improved understanding of cardiac remodeling and possibly improved patients' care. Mitochondrial damage and bcl-2 to bax balance play a central role in ischemia-dependent apoptosis while angiotensin II and beta(1)-adrenergic-stimulation may be major causes of receptor-mediated apoptosis. Benefits due to treatment with ACE-inhibitors and beta-blockers appear to be in part due to reduced myocardial apoptosis. Moreover, infarct-related artery patency late after AMI may be a major determinant of myocardial apoptosis and clinical benefits deriving from an open artery late post AMI (the "open artery hypothesis") may be, at least in part, due to reduced myocardiocyte loss.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12386502
Acute coronary syndromes represent the acute, life-threatening phases of coronary heart disease. Patients with acute coronary syndromes are at high risk of major adverse cardiac events. Treatment of these patients remains controversial because of the heterogeneous nature of these conditions and recent advances in their management options. The older standbys of aspirin, heparins, nitrates, beta-blockers, and thrombolytic therapy have given way to vastly improved interventional capabilities (with improved adjunctive pharmacotherapy), low molecular weight heparins, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists, safer theinopyridines, thrombin inhibitors, and newer generation fibrinolytics. Despite these substantial advances, a great deal of confusion remains. Clinicians know that there are better forms of therapy but are not sure how to use them, when to use them, or even what to use. They do not have all the answers at present and probably have more questions than answers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12389882
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors are widely prescribed for their antiinflammatory and analgesic effects. The potential for COX-2 inhibitors to exert deleterious effects on renal function similar to those of traditional nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs is not well defined. Until recently, COX-1 was considered responsible for the synthesis of renal prostaglandins. However, COX-2 is also constitutively expressed in the human kidney Clinical studies have reported a significant decrease in glomerular filtration rate in young and elderly sodium-depleted volunteers given COX-2 inhibitors. We describe the case of a 71-year-old woman who developed acute renal failure after receiving a 50-mg dose of the selective COX-2 inhibitor rofecoxib.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12390940
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12390947
Beta-blocking agents improve functional status and reduce morbidity in mild-to-moderate heart failure, but it is not known whether they produce such benefits in severe heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12392039
New treatments have improved outcomes in heart failure (HF), but applicability of these advances may be limited in African Americans. Analysis of previous trials has shown that a combination of hydralazine (H) plus isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN) may be especially beneficial in African Americans with HF. The African American Heart Failure Trial (A-HeFT) is a double-blind, randomized, and placebo-controlled trial in African American patients with stable NYHA Class III-IV HF while on standard therapy. Randomization to addition of BiDil, a fixed combination of H+ISDN, or placebo, will be stratified for beta-blocker usage, and all patients will be treated and followed until the last patient entered has completed six months of follow-up. The primary efficacy endpoint will be a composite score including quality of life, deaths, and hospitalizations for HF. At least 600 patients will be randomized. The first patient was randomized in June, 2001. Besides additional testing of H+ISDN in HF, A-HeFT will be the first HF trial aimed at a subgroup of African American patients, as well as the first to use a new composite HF score as its primary efficacy endpoint.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12397571
Previous studies demonstrated an association between asthma and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDCM), raising concerns regarding chronic beta-agonist inhaler use. The purpose of this investigation was to replicate that association.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12398962
Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) specific inhibitors, with antihypertensive medication is common practice for many patients with arthritis. This study evaluated the effects of celecoxib 200 mg/day and rofecoxib 25 mg/day on blood pressure (BP) and edema in a 6-week, randomized, parallel-group, double-blind study in patients > or =65 years of age with osteoarthritis who were treated with fixed antihypertensive regimens. One thousand ninety-two patients received study medication (celecoxib, n = 549; rofecoxib, n = 543). Significantly more patients in the rofecoxib group compared with the celecoxib group developed increased systolic BP (change >20 mm Hg plus absolute value > or =140 mm Hg) at any time point (14.9% vs 6.9%, p <0.01). Rofecoxib caused the greatest increase in systolic BP in patients receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or beta blockers, whereas those on calcium channel antagonists or diuretic monotherapy receiving either celecoxib or rofecoxib showed no significant increases in BP. Clinically significant new-onset or worsening edema associated with weight gain developed in a greater percentage of patients in the rofecoxib group (7.7%) compared with the celecoxib group (4.7%) (p <0.05). Thus, in patients with controlled hypertension on a fixed antihypertensive regimen, careful monitoring of BP is warranted after the initiation of celecoxib or rofecoxib therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12398977
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12401122
Recent studies have suggested a differential influence of mean pressure and pulse pressure on myocardial infarction and stroke, and differences among the major drugs in their efficacy at preventing these individual endpoints. We hypothesized that antihypertensive drugs have differing influences upon the pulse wave even when their effects on blood pressure are the same. We studied 30 untreated hypertensive patients, aged 28-55 years, who were rotated through six 6-week periods of daily treatment with amlodipine 5 mg, doxazosin 4 mg, lisinopril 10 mg, bisoprolol 5 mg, bendrofluazide 2.5 mg or placebo. The best drug was repeated at the end of the rotation. Blood pressure readings and radial pulse tonometry (by Sphygmocor) were performed at each visit, and blood was taken for measurement of levels of atrial natriuretic peptide and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP). The Sphygmocor derivation of the central aortic pulse wave was used to measure time for transmission of the reflected wave (T(R)) and the augmentation index (AI), which is the proportional increase in systolic pressure due to the reflected wave. There was a dissociation between the effects of the drugs on blood pressure and pulse wave analysis. Bisoprolol caused the greatest falls in blood pressure and T(R), but was the only drug to increase AI. This paradoxical response to bisoprolol was associated with a 3-fold increase in plasma BNP levels. There was a smaller elevation of BNP in women compared with men, as described previously, and this elevation also was associated with significantly higher values of AI. Other drugs reduced AI, and this was associated with a significant decrease in BNP by amlodipine. In conclusion, antihypertensive drugs differ in their short-term effects on augmentation of the systolic pulse wave and secretion of BNP from the heart, regarded as a sensitive measure of strain on cardiomyocytes. These differences may help to explain cause-specific differences in outcome in recent trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12401144
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417537
Most cardiovascular events associated with hypertension are complications of atherosclerosis. Some antihypertensive agents influence experimental models of atherosclerosis through mechanisms independent of blood pressure lowering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417542
Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and norepinephrine (NE) are strongly related to severity of and are independent predictors of outcome in heart failure. The long-term effects of angiotensin receptor blockers on BNP and NE in heart failure patients are not known.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417543
Sibutramine, a serotonin and norepinephrine transporter blocker, is widely used as an adjunctive obesity treatment. Norepinephrine reuptake inhibition with sibutramine conceivably could exacerbate arterial hypertension and promote cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417825
A prospective study was performed in 177 patients, mean age 78+/-6 years, hospitalized with acute coronary syndromes. Obstructive coronary artery disease was documented by coronary angiography in 154 of 177 patients (87%). Coronary revascularization was performed in 96 of 177 patients (54%). Five of 177 patients (3%) died during hospitalization. Compared to use before hospitalization, at hospital discharge the use of aspirin increased from 43% to 84% (p<0.001), the use of clopidogrel increased from 21% to 54% (p<0.001), the use of beta blockers increased from 38% to 76% (p<0.001), the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers increased from 42% to 70% (p<0.001), the use of long-acting nitrates increased from 15% to 31% (p<0.001), and the use of calcium channel blockers decreased from 28% to 23% (p=NS). Dyslipidemia was present in 62% of the 177 patients. The use of statins increased from 34% before hospitalization to 63% at hospital discharge (p<0.001).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12418946
Control of high blood pressure (BP) in older adults is an important part of public health efforts at prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12421112
In well designed studies in patients with mild to moderate hypertension, combinations of the sustained-release (SR) formulation of the nondihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist verapamil 120 to 240 mg/day and the ACE inhibitor trandolapril 0.5 to 8 mg/day were significantly more effective in reducing sitting systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) from baseline than placebo. In most randomised studies, combinations of verapamil SR 120 to 240 mg/day and trandolapril 0.5 to 8 mg/day were significantly more effective in lowering sitting DBP and SBP than the corresponding monotherapies administered at the same dosage. Trandolapril/verapamil SR 2/180 mg/day provided significantly more effective 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure (BP) control than of the corresponding monotherapies. Moreover, trandolapril/verapamil SR reduced BP in patients inadequately controlled with either of the corresponding monotherapies. The antihypertensive efficacy of trandolapril/verapamil SR 2/180 mg/day was generally similar to that of other combinations of antihypertensive agents (metoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide, atenolol/chlorthalidone, lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide, enalapril/hydrochlorothiazide) in patients with hypertension, including those with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Trandolapril/verapamil SR reduced BP in patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes or primary renal disease, Black patients and elderly patients. Trandolapril/verapamil SR was more effective than the individual components administered as monotherapy in reducing proteinuria in patients with type 2 diabetes or primary renal disease. Trandolapril/verapamil SR had a neutral or beneficial effect on metabolic parameters (glucose, insulin, lipids) in patients with hypertension, including those with type 2 diabetes. Trandolapril/verapamil SR preserved left ventricular function in patients with heart failure. Fewer cardiac events occurred after therapy with trandolapril/verapamil SR than after trandolapril alone in post-myocardial infarction patients with congestive heart failure. The incidence of adverse events in recipients of trandolapril/verapamil SR was similar to that of the individual components, and that of other combination therapies. In placebo-controlled trials conducted in the US, headache, upper respiratory tract infections, cough, constipation, atrioventricular block (first degree) and dizziness were the most commonly reported adverse events in recipients of combinations of verapamil SR (120 to 240 mg/day) and trandolapril (0.5 to 8 mg/day). In conclusion, the fixed-dose combination of trandolapril/verapamil SR is an effective treatment for patients with hypertension, including those with type 2 diabetes. Trandolapril/verapamil SR tended to be more effective than monotherapy with either verapamil SR or trandolapril, and generally showed antihypertensive efficacy similar to that of other combination antihypertensive therapies. Current data support the use of trandolapril/verapamil SR as an alternative treatment when monotherapy with either agent is not effective. Data from large clinical trials currently being conducted will assist in fully defining the role of trandolapril/verapamil SR as a cardio- and renoprotective agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12423712
Left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy is associated with a substantial risk for malignant arrhythmias and sudden death. The effects of antihypertensive therapy on QT dispersion, which reflects cardiac repolarization heterogeneity, in relation to changes in LV mass has not been well studied. Repeat echocardiography and QT measurements (standard 12-lead electrocardiograms) were performed in hypertensive patients with LV hypertrophy, who were randomized double-blind to receive the angiotensin II type 1-receptor blocker irbesartan (n = 44) or the beta(1)-receptor blocker atenolol (n = 48) for 48 weeks, and in 37 matched hypertensive control subjects without LV hypertrophy. LV mass index was related to QT dispersion (r = 0.34, p <0.001). The reduction in LV mass was greater using irbesartan than using atenolol (-27 +/- 28 vs -15 +/- 21 g/m(2) at 48 weeks, p = 0.021), with similar reductions in blood pressure. Irbesartan decreased QT dispersion (from 56 +/- 24 ms to 45 +/- 20 ms at 48 weeks; p <0.001) and QTc dispersion (from 57 +/- 24 to 44 +/- 19 ms at 48 weeks; p <0.001). In contrast, atenolol had minor effects. The decreases in QT and QTc dispersions were greater using irbesartan than using atenolol (p = 0.001 and p = 0.011, respectively); the same results were found when changes in LV mass, blood pressure, and heart rate were also included in multivariate analyses. Thus, heterogeneity of ventricular repolarization is related to the degree of LV hypertrophy. Irbesartan, but not atenolol, reduces QT and QTc dispersions independent of changes in LV mass, blood pressure, or heart rate, and thus seems to induce structural and electrical remodeling in a direction that could decrease the risk of fatal events in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12423713
Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a risk factor for sudden death. Temporal and spatial changes in repolarization are among the most studied mechanisms for inducing fatal ventricular arrhythmias. Beta blockers effectively reduce the risk of sudden death in CHF. Our aim in this study was to investigate changes induced by metoprolol and carvedilol on the QT variability index (QTVI), a new measure reflecting the temporal heterogeneity of cardiac repolarization. A total of 82 subjects, who were in New York Heart Association functional class II or III, underwent short-term spectral analysis of RR and QT variability before and after a 1-year course of high-dose metoprolol (40 subjects) or carvedilol (42 subjects) at baseline (rest) and after sympathetic stress (head-up tilt). At rest, both drug-treated groups had lower QTVI (p <0.001) than after placebo, but during tilt patients treated with carvedilol had a lower QTVI than those treated with metoprolol (p <0.05). Although both beta-blocker treatments helped to normalize the QTVI measured in normal subjects at rest, they each differentially altered the index after tilt. Carvedilol seemed to improve the QTVI more than metoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12428993
Although atrial fibrillation is not widely known by the general public, in developed countries it is the most common arrhythmia. The incidence increases markedly with advancing age. Thus, with the growing proportion of elderly individuals, atrial fibrillation will come to represent a significant medical and socioeconomic problem. The consequences of atrial fibrillation have the greatest impact. The risk of thromboembolism is well known; other outcomes of atrial fibrillation are less well recognised, such as its relationship with dementia, depression and death. Such consequences are responsible for diminished quality of life and considerable economic cost. Atrial fibrillation is characterised by rapid and disorganised atrial activity, with a frequency between 300 and 600 beats/minute. The ventricles react irregularly, and may contract rapidly or slowly depending on the health of the conduction system. Clinical symptoms are varied, including palpitations, syncope, dizziness or embolic events. Atrial fibrillation may be paroxysmal, persistent or chronic, and a number of attacks are asymptomatic. Suspicion or confirmation of atrial fibrillation necessitates investigation and, as far as possible, appropriate treatment of underlying causes such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hypoxia, hyperthyroidism and congestive heart failure. In the evaluation of atrial fibrillation, cardiac exploration is invaluable, including electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiography, with the aim of detecting cardiac abnormalities and directing management. In elderly patients (arbitrarily defined as aged >75 years), the management of atrial fibrillation varies; it requires an individual approach, which largely depends on comorbid conditions, underlying cardiac disease, and patient and physician preferences. This management is essentially based on pharmacological treatment, but there are also nonpharmacological options. Two alternatives are possible: restoration and maintenance of sinus rhythm, or control of ventricular rate, leaving the atria in arrhythmia. Pharmacological options include antiarrhythmic drugs, such as class III agents, beta-blockers and class IC agents. These drugs have some adverse effects, and careful monitoring is necessary. The nonpharmacological approach to atrial fibrillation includes external or internal direct-current cardioversion and new methods, such as catheter ablation of specific foci, an evolving science that has been shown to be successful in a very select group of atrial fibrillation patients. Another serious challenge in the management of chronic atrial fibrillation in older individuals is the prevention of stroke, its primary outcome, by choosing an appropriate antithrombotic treatment (aspirin or warfarin). Several risk-stratification schemes have been validated and may be helpful to determine the best antithrombotic choice in individual patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12433890
To determine tolerability and symptom changes associated with the introduction of bisoprolol treatment in older patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12434307
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of timolol maleate 0.5% gel forming solution (TXE, Merck) versus timolol maleate 0.5% gel forming solution (TXG, Falcon) in primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12435222
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12435255
Hypertension is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in the United States, with no known treatment to prevent progressive declines leading to ESRD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12440556
Patients with chronic heart failure have increased sympathetic nervous system activity that contributes to deterioration of cardiovascular function over time. Long-term beta-blocker therapy prevents such deterioration through inhibition of this neurohormonal pathway. The impressive survival data collected from several large studies have made beta-blockers a component of standard therapy for New York Heart Association class II to III heart failure. Although there are differences in the pharmacological properties of the beta-blockers shown to improve morbidity and mortality in heart failure, there is little evidence to suggest that such properties constitute any major advantages in clinical outcome. Carvedilol and extended-release metoprolol succinate are 2 beta-blockers currently approved in the United States for the treatment of patients with heart failure. Both agents have shown similar risk reductions in overall and cause-specific mortality; however, no outcome data from a comparative trial are available to support the use of one agent over the other. Regardless of the agent chosen, appropriate dosing and titration of beta-blockers are essential for successful therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12440651
Studies have shown that beta adrenergic antagonist therapy benefits patients with coronary disease through reduced mortality rate after acute myocardial infarction and reduced incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting. The long-term benefit of this therapy in survivors of myocardial infarction who are subsequently revascularized, however, has not been defined or studied rigorously. We reviewed the published data to clarify the role of beta blockade in patients who had surgical revascularization after myocardial infarction. We found that patients who received beta blockers after myocardial infarction had a reduced mortality rate and fewer cardiac events in most clinical situations, a benefit which likely extends to patients who have had subsequent surgical revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441210
Nifedipine has been reported to cause impairment of insulin sensitivity. But recently a controlled-released formulation of nifedipine (nifedipine-GITS) has been reported that it could improve insulin sensitivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441211
Irrespective of their clinical relevance, side effects cannot be considered a negligible problem in antihypertensive therapy. The aim of this trial was to evaluate the tolerability profile of lercanidipine with that of two other calcium antagonists (amlodipine and lacidipine) in elderly hypertensives.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12447861
Short-term carvedilol administration is more powerful than propranolol in decreasing hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) in cirrhotic patients, but induces arterial hypotension that may prevent its long-term use in portal hypertensive patients. This study compared the HVPG reduction and safety of long-term carvedilol and propranolol. Fifty-one cirrhotic patients were randomly assigned to receive carvedilol (n = 26) and propranolol (n = 25). Hemodynamic measurements and renal function were assessed at baseline and after 11.1 +/- 4.1 weeks. Carvedilol caused a greater decrease in HVPG than popranolol (-19 +/- 2% vs. -12 +/- 2%; P <.001). The proportion of patients achieving an HVPG reduction >/=20% or </=12 mm Hg was greater after carvedilol (54% vs. 23%; P <.05). Carvedilol, but not propranolol caused a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure (MAP) (-11 +/- 1% vs. -5 +/- 3%; P =.05) and a significant increase in plasma volume (PV) and body weight (11 +/- 5% and 2 +/- 1%, respectively; P <.05). Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was unchanged with either drug, but the dose of diuretics was increased more frequently after carvedilol (27% vs. 8%; P =.07). Adverse events requiring discontinuation of treatment occurred in 2 patients receiving carvedilol and in 3 receiving propranolol. In conclusion, carvedilol has a greater portal hypotensive effect than propranolol in patients with cirrhosis. However, its clinical applicability may be limited by its systemic hypotensive effects. Further trials are needed to confirm the therapeutic potential of carvedilol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12448067
Only a few studies have evaluated the efficacy of alpha-blocking agents in combination with other classes of antihypertensive agents, especially in patients not adequately controlled by monotherapy. As alpha-blockers have an additional beneficial effect on serum lipids, it seems reasonable to use them instead of beta-blockers or diuretics in insufficiently treated hypertensive patients with hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12449448
Whereas the earlier conceptual targets of heart failure therapy, such as the cardio-renal and hemodynamic models, all fulfilled the basic needs of symptomatic relief and hemodynamic improvement, only the neurohormonal model has provided an effective target to address symptom relief in concert with survival benefits. Recent data allude to a disease-modifying effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-Is) in retarding the new development of heart failure in high-risk populations. Angiotensin receptor antagonists (ARBs) have not been demonstrated to be superior to ACE-Is and their value in achieving incremental benefits in addition to ACE-Is is limited to scenarios in which beta-adrenergic receptor blocker therapy is not applicable. Beta-adrenergic receptor blockade in addition to ACE inhibition offers incremental benefits that are achieved early and are beneficial in most stages of severity except in the presence of overt decompensation. Unlike ACE-Is, beta-adrenergic receptor blockers cannot be construed as a class but are heterogeneous in their therapeutic response.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12451325
Single-drug treatment of essential hypertension (HT) is often insufficient to normalize blood pressure (BP), and high doses of antihypertensive agents can have adverse effects on glucose tolerance (GT) and insulin sensitivity. This study tested whether aggressive BP lowering with combination treatment had any influence on GT or insulin action. In all, 29 nonobese (body mass index [BMI], <30 kg/m ), normolipidemic patients with established HT (159 +/- 3/99 +/- 1 mm Hg) but normal GT were recruited. Eleven normotensive (125 +/- 3/85 +/- 1 mm Hg) subjects were matched to the patients for both anthropometric and metabolic variables. Following baseline studies (serum lipid profile, oral GT, insulin release, and insulin sensitivity assessed by the insulin clamp technique), patients were randomized in a double-blind fashion to two combination regimens (verapamil 180 mg/day + trandolapril 2 mg/day or atenolol 50 mg/day + nifedipine 20 mg/day) and restudied 3 months later. Blood pressure was normalized in both groups (with decrements of 25 +/- 5/17 +/- 2 and 29 +/- 3/15 +/- 2 mm Hg, respectively). Lipid profile, GT, insulin release, and insulin sensitivity of both glucose uptake and lipolysis were unchanged following both treatments. The authors conclude that in nonobese, normolipidemic, glucose-tolerant hypertensive patients, BP normalization with combination therapy is feasible at no cost in terms of undesired effects on glucose and lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12455715
Diurnal BP rhythm is known to be abnormal (reduced BP fall with sleep) in chronic renal failure, dialysis and renal transplantation patients. In subjects with primary hypertension and with reduced diurnal BP fall with sleep there is consistent evidence of increased target-organ damage. However, the few studies that have addressed the reproducibility of diurnal rhythm in normal or hypertensive subjects have concluded that the BP fall with sleep is poorly reproducible. It is not known whether the same is true for patients with renal disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12461301
Blood pressure control (<140/90 mm Hg) rates for hypertension fall far short of the US national goal of 50% or more. Achievable control rates in varied practice settings and geographic regions and factors that predict improved blood pressure control are not well identified.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12461307
Sexual dysfunction associated with hypertension or antihypertensive therapies may impact the ability of patients to stay on therapy and lead to deterioration in patients' quality of life. Therefore, it is important for practitioners to become familiar with the wide variation in sexual side effects produced by antihypertensive agents and to discuss the potential occurrence of these side effects with their patients. In many cases, a change in the patient's drug regimen may help patients overcome specific sexual side effects experienced with certain treatments. Practitioners should consider selecting an antihypertensive therapy that is highly effective in lowering blood pressure but preserves patients quality of life. The effect of medications on sexual function remains controversial. Some blinded trials report little difference between placebo and specific medications, whereas other studies indicate that antihypertensive medications increase sexual dysfunction, which has an impact on quality of life. Recent evidence suggests that losartan, an angiotensin II antagonist, is not typically associated with development of sexual dysfunction and may actually positively impact several indices of sexual function (erectile function, sexual satisfaction, and frequency of sexual activity) as well as perceived quality of life. Thus, angiotensin II antagonists may offer a therapeutic option to prevent or correct erectile dysfunction in patients with hypertension. The favorable effects of these agents on sexual function may be related, in part, to their ability to block angiotensin II, which has recently become recognized as an important mediator of detumescence and possibly erectile dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12468190
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12471656
Of 2,626 patients admitted for acute coronary syndromes and participating in the PREVENIR 1 and 2 registries, 202 (8%) were aged less than 45 years. Younger patients were more often smokers (79% versus 37%), but systemic hypertension and diabetes were less frequent. Reperfusion therapy was more frequently used in the younger patients (63% versus 46%). At hospital discharge, aspirin and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were prescribed as often in younger and older patients. In contrast, beta-blocking agents and statins were used more often in the younger patients. More younger patients participated in a cardiac rehabilitation programme. Left ventricular ejection fraction was less altered in the younger age group and none of the younger patients died between hospital discharge and six months follow-up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12471688
The authors reviewed some of the most relevant studies dedicated to the assessment of the effects of the antihypertensive drugs on the stress-induced cardiovascular changes. The rises in both blood pressure and heart rate turned out not to be significantly altered by calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, moxonidine, nor beta-blockers, whereas they seemed to be slightly blunted by alpha-blocking drugs. However, since baseline blood pressure was significantly lower in treated hypertensives than in placebo-given patients, all antihypertensive drugs eventually resulted in a lower blood pressure level during stress, as compared with untreated patients. Regarding white coat effect, which has to be considered as a very particular stress, it appeared to be lowered to the same extent by placebo and antihypertensive drugs; moreover, its changes were not associated with any clinical beneficial effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12475466
We performed a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of carvedilol effects in children with severe, chronic heart failure (HF), despite the use of conventional therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12476475
To compare the effects of four antihypertensive drugs, which have reportedly different effectiveness in reducing myocardial mass.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12478497
Control of hypertension in the vascular patient is clearly a priority. However, these patients often will have significant co-morbidities that may influence the choice of medication, a decision that also may be affected by cost or Health Plan directives. Wherever possible, monotherapy should be attempted first, although in select circumstances combination therapy may be more appropriate. The 5 main categories of drugs used in the initial treatment of hypertensive vascular diseases are (1). diuretics, (2). beta-adrenergic blockers, (3). calcium channel blockers, (4). angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and (5). angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs). There are also other less commonly used drugs. Each of the antihypertensive agents is roughly equally effective, producing a good antihypertensive response in 40% to 60% of cases. Some antihypertensives, especially ACE and ARBs, also may have beneficial effects on the vascular and metabolic systems separate from their blood pressure lowering effects, which suggests they may be beneficial even if blood pressure is well maintained with other agents. This report covers the basic information required for the vascular surgeon to become familiar with the various medications and their indications, dosage, and side effects. It also provides some guidelines in selecting relevant antihypertensive treatment regimens for the elderly patient with arterial vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12479763
Antihypertensive therapy is well established to reduce hypertension-related morbidity and mortality, but the optimal first-step therapy is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12482211
The antinociceptive activity of donepezil, a novel cholinesterase inhibitor, was investigated in the mouse hot plate test. Donepezil (5 to 10 mg kg(-1) i.p.) induced a dose-dependent antinociception that reached its maximum effect 15 minutes after injection. Donepezil antinociception was prevented by the antimuscarinic drug scopolamine. At analgesic doses, donepezil did not alter gross animal behavior. These results indicate that donepezil is endowed by muscarinic antinociceptive properties, suggesting this compound as a potential therapeutic approach for the treatment of painful pathologies. Therefore, we investigated donepezil's effect in migraine. Donepezil (5 mg per os, evening assumption) was effective as a prophylatic agent in patients suffering from migraine with or without aura by reducing the number of hours with pain, the number of attacks, and the severity of the pain attack. The efficacy of donepezil was compared with that of the beta-blocker propranolol (40 mg bid per os), showing higher activity. Response rates of a large-sized open study devoid of entry criteria regarding migraine subtypes suggest the drug as an excellent prophylactic compound for migraine in general practice. Clinical results also indicate that the activation of the cholinergic system can represent a novel prophylactic approach to migraine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12482765
A hypercoagulable state might contribute to increased atherothrombotic risk in hypertension. The sympathetic nervous system is hyperactive in hypertension, and it regulates hemostatic function. We investigated the effect of nonspecific beta-adrenergic stimulation (isoproterenol) and blockade (propranolol) on clotting diathesis in hypertension. Fifteen hypertensive and 21 normotensive subjects underwent isoproterenol infusion in two sequential, fixed-order doses of 20 and then 40 ng. kg(-1). min(-1) for 15 min/dose. Thirteen subjects were double-blind studied after receiving placebo or propranolol (100 mg/day) for 5 days each. In hypertensive subjects, isoproterenol elicited a dose-dependent increase in plasma von Willebrand factor (vWF) antigen [F(2,34) = 5.02; P = 0.032] and a decrease in D-dimer [F(2,34) = 4.57; P = 0.040], whereas soluble tissue factor remained unchanged. Propranolol completely abolished the increase in vWF elicited by isoproterenol [F(1,12) = 10.25; P = 0.008] but had no significant effect on tissue factor and D-dimer. In hypertension, vWF is readily released from endothelial cells by beta-adrenergic stimulation, which might contribute to increased cardiovascular risk. However, beta-adrenergic stimulation alone may not be sufficient to trigger fibrin formation in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12486510
To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP)-reducing effect of the fixed combination of 0.005% latanoprost and 0.5% timolol compared with the individual monotherapies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12488264
Aim: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% once daily or twice daily compared with timolol 0.5% twice daily in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12495391
Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) therapy with backup ventricular pacing increases survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. Most currently implanted ICD devices provide dual-chamber pacing therapy. The most common comorbid cause for mortality in this population is congestive heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12500181
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505115
Randomized trials have shown that beta-blockers prevent morbidity and mortality in heart failure. However, whether beta-blockers are effective in older patients or those with conditions that would have led to their exclusion from these trials remains unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12509760
Target selection in drug discovery--defined here as the decision to focus on finding an agent with a particular biological action that is anticipated to have therapeutic utility--is influenced by a complex balance of scientific, medical and strategic considerations. In this article, we provide an introduction to the key issues in target selection and discuss the rationale for decision making.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12512397
The treatment of complex, polymorphous disorders like HFA/AS always brings a particular challenge to pharmacotherapy. Additionally, the specific characteristics presented by HFA/AS introduce unique complications to patient care and place unusual demands on a clinician's skill and experience. To provide safe and effective treatment, the clinician must understand the core features of the disorder and the manifestations of the condition in his or her patient. Furthermore, a thorough understanding of the family, school, and community resources and limitations is necessary. Once an assessment has been made, focusing on target symptoms provides a crucial framework for care. Knowing manifestations of symptoms and characterizing their distribution and behavior in that patient is most important. For patients with HFA/AS it is particularly essential to coordinate behavioral and pharmacologic objectives. The target symptoms should be tracked carefully and placed into a priority system that is based on the risks and disability they create for the patient. The skill of pharmacotherapy also means setting out realistic expectations, keeping track of the larger systems of care at school and home, and collaboration with parents and care providers. There is an expanding range and pace of biologic and intervention research into HFA/AS. The genetic work has produced exciting leads that are likely to be helpful to future generations [82-84], but the task of clinicians is to tend to today's patients. As we discover more about the complex neural circuitry subserving repetitive behaviors, reward systems, and social cognition, there are good reasons to believe our treatments will become more sophisticated and specific. Psychopharmacology is also moving to design medications that target more specific populations of receptor and brain functions. This is likely to produce medicines that have fewer side effects, are more effective, and are more symptom-specific. Pharmacotherapy is not the ultimate treatment for HFA/AS but it has a definite place. Medication can be a critical element in a comprehensive treatment plan. There is a wider range of medications with more specific biologic effects than ever before. For patients with HFA/AS these newer agents are safer and less disruptive. When paired with clinicians who are becoming more skilled at recognizing and managing symptoms, patients have a greater opportunity to reach their potential and lead pleasurable lives.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12513113
Beta-blockers effectively reduce mortality and recurrent cardiovascular events in patients surviving myocardial infarction. However, these agents are underused in clinical practice, especially in older patients with diabetes mellitus. The current literature shows that beta-blockers are at least as effective in older diabetic patients as in other patients, without major safety concerns for their possible adverse effects. The use of these agents in clinical practice should therefore be encouraged, in order to reduce the burden of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in older diabetic patients post-infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12515103
The extended use of interventional surgery of revascularisation has modified the prognosis and the evolution of ischaemic heart diseases. However, both coronary artery bypass graft and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty failed to make the symptomatic or subclinical ischaemic manifestations of chronic coronary insufficiency disappear. The interest of using betablockers as a first-line therapy was widely demonstrated. However, their combination with another efficient molecule is often necessary. The aim of this trial has been to appreciate the efficiency of the association of a betablocker with either trimetazidine or with isosorbide monoitrate. Hundred and eighty five patients retaining a positive effort test despite 100 mg of atenolol, received in addition, either 60 mg of trimetazidine (93 cases) of 60 mg of isosorbide mononitrate (92 cases) for a two-month period and are then re-evaluated at the end of this period. The ischaemic threshold is delayed in a significant way in both groups (p < 0.0001; trimetazidine +7%, isosorbide mononitrate +10.7%). Twenty-three percent of the exercise tests under trimetzidine and 19% under isosorbide mononitrate become negative after two months of the therapeutic combination. The clinical improvement is even clearer with the disappearance of the angina crisis during the week before the second exercise test in 63% of the cases under trimetazidine and 54% of the cases under isosorbide mononitrate, among the patients who had kept it under atenolol at the inclusion. In conclusion, the combination of a second efficient molecule, trimetazidine or isosorbide mononitrate, brings a functional and objective improvement to patients with insufficient chronic coronary disease not totally controlled using a betablocker, even with high dosage. One should notice two important advantages in favour of the trimetazidine: one is practical due to a better tolerance (lack of cephalalgia), the other is conceptual (use of the complementary metabolic approach of cellular oxygenation rather than the haemodynamic approach of nitrate compounds which are already in concurrency with all other anti-ischaemic molecules).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12516008
Depression in the elderly population is a major public health problem. It has a high prevalence, is frequently co-morbid with medical illnesses, impacts negatively on quality of life, increases the number of visits to different medical services, and carries a high risk of suicide, especially in men. Imaging studies have increased our understanding of the biological mechanisms of depression in the elderly. Depression is sometimes difficult to diagnose in the elderly. It should be differentiated from apathetic states ( negative syndrome ), and its treatment requires knowledge of specific physiological changes that occur in this age group. Geriatric depression is more somatic and less ideational than depression in other age groups. Acute treatments with various antidepressant medications, augmentation strategies, electroconvulsive treatments, and psychotherapy must be coupled with maintenance strategies to prevent recurrences, which are common.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12517682
Blood pressure (BP) is controlled by a variety of systems, the activities of which vary throughout the day. As drugs are developed that selectively block these systems, the fall in BP may not be consistent over 24 h.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12521623
This study evaluated the effects of propranolol on recovery of heart rate variability (HRV) after acute myocardial infarction and its relation to outcome in the Beta-blocker Heart Attack Trial (BHAT). Beta blockers improve mortality after acute myocardial infarction, but through an unknown mechanism. Depressed HRV, a measure of autonomic tone, predicts mortality after acute myocardial infarction. Whether beta blockers influence recovery of HRV after acute myocardial infarction, and thereby improve outcome, is unknown. We compared 24-hour HRV parameters at 1 week after acute myocardial infarction and after 6 weeks of treatment with propanolol (n = 88) or placebo (n = 96). The relation between 25-month outcome (death/acute myocardial infarction/congestive heart failure), propranolol treatment, and HRV was further analyzed. After 6 weeks, high-frequency (HF) power (log-normalized), an index of vagal tone, increased more in propranolol-treated patients (4.28 +/- 0.1 to 5.17 +/- 0.09 ms(2)) than in placebo-treated patients (4.26 +/- 0.09 to 4.77 +/- 0.1 ms(2), p <0.05). Sympathovagal balance measured by the low-frequency (LF) to HF ratio increased in placebo-treated patients (3.55 +/- 0.24 to 3.86 +/- 0.24) but decreased in those treated with propranolol (3.76 +/- 0.29 to 3.17 +/- 0.23, p <0.01). Other frequency-domain parameters increased over time but were not affected by propranolol. Propranolol blunted the morning increase in the LF/HF ratio. Recovery of HF, the strongest HRV predictor of outcome, and propranolol therapy independently predicted outcome. In summary, after acute myocardial infarction, propranolol therapy improves recovery of parasympathetic tone, which correlates with improved outcome, and decreases morning sympathetic predominance. These findings may elucidate the mechanisms by which beta blockers decrease mortality and reduce the early morning risk of sudden death after acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12521629
Beta blockers have been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure without evidence of overt congestion. No data are available describing outcomes of patients admitted with exacerbated chronic heart failure who are receiving beta blockade at the time of admission. The purpose of this analysis was to evaluate clinical outcomes in patients from the Outcomes of the Prospective Trial of Intravenous Milrinone for Exacerbations of Chronic Heart Failure (OPTIME-CHF) study who were prescribed beta blockers on admission compared with patients who were not prescribed beta blockers at admission. In all, 212 patients were treated with beta blockers at admission and 737 patients were not. Baseline characteristics were similar between groups, except that patients prescribed beta blockers on admission had slightly higher ejection fractions, fewer New York Heart Association class IV symptoms, and lower heart rates. There was no difference in clinical events between patients who were treated with beta blockers at the time of admission and those who were not. Exploratory analyses suggested that patients whose beta-blocker therapy was discontinued had a higher risk of adverse outcomes, particularly in the subset of patients randomized to milrinone. The data from this nonrandom comparison suggest that continuation of pre-existing beta-blocker therapy is not associated with an increased risk of adverse clinical events in patients admitted with worsening heart failure. These results also suggest that caution should be taken when withdrawing beta blockade in this population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12523682
The Carvedilol Acute Myocardial Infarction Study (CAMIS) investigates cardiac remodeling in patients (n = 250) randomized to carvedilol vs atenolol and treated for 12 months after acute myocardial infarction. In a sub-study, we compared sympathetic, hemorrheological and vascular effects in small but particularly well-matched groups of participants who had been on reasonably equipotent but unchanged doses of carvedilol (n = 10) or atenolol (n = 10) for at least 4 weeks. Blood pressures (p < 0.05), plasma adrenaline (p = 0.034), plasma vasopressin (p = 0.022) and whole blood viscosity at shear rate 0.5 cp (p = 0.050), 1.1 cp (p = 0.023), 5.8 cp (p = 0.049) and 201 cp (p = 0.060) taken in the laboratory at baseline before 2 h of using the hyperinsulinemic, isoglycemic glucose clamp were lower on carvedilol. Plasma noradrenaline was lower on carvedilol at baseline and throughout the clamp (p < 0.0005). Forearm vascular resistance as measured by plethysmography during the clamp tended to be lower on carvedilol (p = 0.074). No significant difference was found between the groups in glucose disposal rate measured by clamp, maximal forearm blood flow and minimal forearm vascular resistance after 10 min of ischemia, or in ambulatory blood pressure and heart rate taken a few days later. Thus, potential benefits of carvedilol vs atenolol were seen in these post-infarction patients in a laboratory setting. These findings suggest that the inhibitory effects on the sympathetic nervous system and related blood viscosity are stronger with carvedilol than with atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12527626
We present a two-part review of the English-language literature pertaining to drug therapy for systemic high BP in patients with pulmonary diseases. Part I examines the literature pertaining to the use of antihypertensive drugs in patients with systemic hypertension and coexisting pulmonary conditions, especially COPD and asthma. Part II of the series reviews studies assessing the relationship between sleep-disordered breathing (including the role of the sympathetic nervous system) and systemic hypertension, and presents an approach to the management of these patients. It is the aim of both parts of this review to make qualified conclusions and recommendations applying a methodologic critique to assess the current literature. In the first part of this series, we review the demographics of hypertension in patients with COPD. This is followed by an extensive review of the use of specific classes of antihypertensive drug therapies in patients with pulmonary disease. The antihypertensive agents reviewed include diuretics, calcium antagonists, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and angiotensin II receptor antagonists, beta-adrenergic blocking agents, and alpha-beta-blockers and other non-beta-blocker classes. Additionally, the renin angiotensin system is briefly reviewed, with a discussion of how angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors induce cough, especially in pulmonary and congestive heart failure patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12528088
In chronic heart failure (CHF) beta-blockers reduce myocardial oxygen consumption and improve myocardial efficiency by shifting myocardial substrate utilization from increased free fatty acid oxidation to increased glucose oxidation. The effect of selective and nonselective beta-blockers on total body resting energy production rate (EPR) and substrate utilization is not known.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12529162
While diagnosing Graves disease in childhood and adolescence does not usually present specific problems, the treatment of hyperthyroidism is still controversial. In particular, with regard to the use of radioiodine therapy, strategies vary between many European and North American pediatric endocrinology centers. After the diagnosis is made, antithyroid drug treatment with methimazole (thiamazole), carbimazole, or propylthiouracil should be performed with caution, in particular, because of severe adverse effects, such as agranulocytosis or hepatitis, that are found in up to 1% of patients. Antithyroid drug treatment should not be continued long-term, particularly since definitive remission cannot be expected in more than 30-40% of patients. In contrast, the risk of severe adverse effects is still present, and the risk of thyroid carcinoma increases with time and appears to be considerably higher than after radioiodine treatment. To a great extent, the success of surgery depends on the skills of a trained surgeon. The question of whether to perform total or subtotal thyroidectomy is yet to be resolved. Surgery should be considered in patients with a large thyroid gland (>80g), severe ophthalmopathy, and a lack of remission on antithyroid drug treatment. Success rates have increased to up to 97%, while severe adverse effects (laryngeal nerve palsy, hypoparathyroidism) occur in approximately 4% of patients. Mortality is below 0.1%. Radioiodine treatment in children >5 years of age does not appear to be associated with an increased risk of thyroid carcinoma; however, long-term data are lacking. Compared with the surgical approach, success rates are lower, particularly if low doses of radioiodine are used. In general, adverse effects are less prevalent than in patients who have undergone surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12529904
In this chapter, we have reviewed many of the steps necessary for effective CHD risk reduction. The first step in the office setting is to assess the individual CHD risk. This combines the evaluation of current CHD or a "secondary risk equivalent" with the counting of risk factors and in many cases, the absolute risk calculation. The next steps are to consider each of the major modifiable risk factors (hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, smoking status) to set goals for each and then work to achieve those goals through lifestyle changes and medication therapy. We reviewed each of these risk factors in detail and then turned to a discussion of emerging risk factors that may help "fine-tune" the risk assessment in some borderline cases. We also discussed additional non-invasive testing that is available to the clinician to help refine the assessment of current burden of disease. Finally, we discuss some of the barriers that exist on both a global and local level to effective treatment of CHD risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12540786
Treatment with beta-blockers fails to decrease portal pressure in nearly 40% of cirrhotic patients. Recent studies have suggested that treatment with spironolactone reduces pressure and flow in the portal and variceal systems. This trial was designed to assess if nadolol plus spironolactone is more effective than nadolol alone to prevent the first variceal bleeding. One hundred patients with medium and large varices who had never bled and were without ascites were included in a prospective, randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The patients were randomized into 2 groups: 51 received nadolol plus placebo (N + P) and 49 received nadolol plus spironolactone 100 mg/d (N + S). Hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) and activity of the renin-aldosterone system (plasma renin activity/plasma aldosterone levels) were measured in 24 patients. There were no significant differences in the appearance of variceal bleeding and ascites between groups at a mean follow-up of 22 +/- 16 months. However, analyzing both complications together, the incidence was significantly higher in the N + P group than in the N + S group (39% vs. 20%; P <.04). Clinical ascites was also higher in patients in the N + P group than in the N + S group (21% vs. 6%; P <.04). Significant increases in plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone levels were only observed in patients in the N + S group (P <.01). The cumulative probabilities of remaining free of bleeding and ascites were similar in both groups after 70 months of follow-up. In conclusion, these results suggest that nadolol plus spironolactone does not increase the efficacy of nadolol alone in the prophylaxis of the first variceal bleeding. However, when bleeding and ascites were considered together, the combined therapy effectively reduced the incidence of both portal-hypertensive complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12540788
Postprandial hyperemia is associated with a significant increase in portal pressure in cirrhosis, which may contribute to progressive dilation and rupture of gastroesophageal varices. In cirrhosis, an insufficient hepatic production of nitric oxide (NO) may impair the expected hepatic vasodilatory response to increased blood flow, further exaggerating the postprandial increase in portal pressure. This study was aimed at investigating whether low doses of an oral NO donor might counteract the postprandial peak in portal pressure. Twenty-three portal hypertensive cirrhotics, 8 of them under propranolol therapy, were randomized to receive orally 5-isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN; 10 mg; n = 11) or placebo (n = 12) and a standard liquid meal 15 minutes later. Hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG), mean arterial pressure (MAP), and hepatic blood flow (HBF) were measured at baseline and 15, 30, and 45 minutes after a meal. ISMN significantly attenuated the postprandial increase in portal pressure as compared with placebo (peak HVPG increase: 2.4 +/- 1.4 mm Hg vs. 5.2 +/- 2.1 mm Hg, P =.002). Percentual increases in HBF were similar in both groups. MAP decreased slightly in ISMN group (-7.5% +/-.5%; P <.01 vs. baseline). These effects were also observed in patients on chronic propranolol therapy. In conclusion, hepatic NO supplementation by low doses of ISMN effectively reduces the postprandial increase of portal pressure in cirrhosis, with only a mild effect on arterial pressure. The same was observed in patients receiving propranolol. Our results suggest that therapeutic strategies based on selective hepatic NO delivery may improve the treatment of portal hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12542721
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12544508
We aimed to develop a microarray genotyping system for multiplex analysis of a panel of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes encoding proteins involved in blood pressure regulation, and to apply this system in a pilot study demonstrating its feasibility in the pharmacogenetics of hypertension. A panel of 74 SNPs in 25 genes involved in blood pressure regulation was selected from the SNP databases, and genotyped in DNA samples of 97 hypertensive patients. The patients had been randomized to double-blind treatment with either the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker irbesartan or the beta 1-adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol. Genotyping was performed using a microarray based DNA polymerase assisted 'minisequencing' single nucleotide primer extension assay with fluorescence detection. The observed genotypes were related to the blood pressure reduction using stepwise multiple regression analysis. The allele frequencies of the selected SNPs were determined in the Swedish population. The established microarray-based genotyping system was validated and allowed unequivocal multiplex genotyping of the panel of 74 SNPs in every patient. Almost 7200 SNP genotypes were generated in the study. Profiles of four or five SNP-genotypes that may be useful as predictors of blood pressure reduction after antihypertensive treatment were identified. Our results highlight the potential of microarray-based technology for SNP genotyping in pharmacogenetics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12544718
To determine the relative efficacy of antianginal drugs administered as monotherapy or in combination in patients with chronic stable angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12544861
Elevated blood pressure is one of the most potent risk factors for first ever and recurrent stroke as well as influencing early outcome after acute stroke. There have been a number of significant randomized controlled trials which may influence management in each of these three categories.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12545683
We compared differences associated with use of travoprost and latanoprost on both progression of perimetric loss over time and associated costs among black patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12549721
Although triptans are a major advance in the treatment of migraine, the optimal approach for acute treatment involves a combination of lifestyle modifications, nonpharmacologic symptom relief, and drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12549727
Thyrotoxicosis is associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, primarily due to heart failure and thromboembolism. However, its signs and symptoms may be subtle and can easily be missed. Therefore, one should suspect thyrotoxicosis in patients with palpitations, exercise intolerance, dyspnea on exertion, and other cardiovascular signs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12549986
Diabetes mellitus in adults is associated with an increased risk of premature vascular disease and a higher mortality rate. The presence of other risk factors, often seen in diabetic patients, such as systemic hypertension, augments the rate of vascular diseases. Evidence is growing that tight control of hyperglycemia using insulin and/or oral hypoglycemic agents will modify this risk. More aggressive control of concomitant hypertension and/or hyperlipidemia is also required. Diabetic patients who have myocardial infarctions do worse than nondiabetic patients. Various strategies to improve outcomes include the use of tight blood glucose control, and various coronary interventions are currently under clinical study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12556656
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12556657
In a quantitative overview of published trials, we investigated whether pharmacologic properties of antihypertensive drugs, as opposed to reduction in blood pressure, explain cardiovascular outcomes in hypertensive or high-risk patients. We used meta-regression to investigate the association between the odds ratios of outcome (experimental vs. reference treatment) and the corresponding blood pressure differences between study groups. Thus, we correlated odds ratios with between-group differences in systolic pressure. We then compared odds ratios of benefit observed in recent trials with those predicted by meta-regression on the basis of the differences in systolic pressure between randomized groups. Among nine actively-controlled trials in hypertension, significant differences in systolic pressure (follow-up minus baseline) between randomized groups (experimental minus reference) were observed in the ALLHAT, CAPPP, MIDAS, and NORDIL trials. Furthermore, the differences in achieved systolic and/or diastolic pressure between study groups were also significant in the hypertension trials and studies in high-risk patients, which involved untreated control patients. The differences between the observed odds ratios and those predicted by meta-regression did not reach statistical significance except for NORDIL and the single-drug therapy subgroup of the PROGRESS trial. In NORDIL, the risk of stroke was lower on diltiazem than on the older drug classes despite a 3.1 mm Hg higher systolic pressure on the calcium channel blocker. In PROGRESS, perindopril alone reduced blood pressure by 5/3 mm Hg, but did not affect the incidence of all cardiovascular events or the recurrence of stroke. In conclusion, the finding that in the reviewed trials blood pressure reduction largely accounted for outcome emphasizes the desirability of tight blood pressure control. The hypothesis that blood pressure-lowering medications might influence cardiovascular prognosis over and beyond their antihypertensive effect remains to a large extent unproved.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12558470
Cost is an issue when prescribing two drugs with equivalent efficacy. We compared the direct medical costs of topical brinzolamide 1% (twice a day or three times daily) with topical dorzolamide 2% (twice a day or three times daily) in France, Italy, Portugal and Spain in patients with ocular hypertension or primary open-angle glaucoma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12559536
The aim of this prospective, randomized study was to investigate the effect of pretreatment with two different intracellular calcium-lowering drugs (verapamil and metoprolol) on recovery from atrial effective refractory period (AERP) shortening after internal electrical cardioversion (EC) of persistent atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients on amiodarone. Twenty-one patients on amiodarone for at least 30 days were referred to our hospital for internal EC of a persistent AF refractory to external EC. They were randomized to receive only amiodarone (group AMI, n=7), or amiodarone and verapamil 240 mg/day (group VER, n=7), or amiodarone and metoprolol 100 mg/day (group MET, n=7). Left AERP was measured 10 min and 24 h after EC. AERP was also determined in 13 controls. The AERP after 10 min was significantly shorter in group AMI (201 (31) ms, P<0.02) and group MET (203 (34) ms, P<0.03) than in controls (249 (45) ms), but not in group VER (237 (51) ms, P=NS). The AERP after 24 h was still significantly shorter in group AMI (204 (38) ms, P<0.04) than in controls, but not in group MET (225 (52) ms, P=NS) or in group VER (290 (36) ms, P=NS). Pretreatment with amiodarone and verapamil prevents AERP shortening, while pretreatment with amiodarone and metoprolol only accelerated AERP recovery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12561007
A review of the literature on the management of esophagogastric varices published in the last 12 months shows that the data are still quite conflicting. In the primary and secondary prophylaxis of variceal bleeding, beta-blockers are still the mainstay of pharmacotherapy. Measurement of the hepatic portal venous pressure gradient is considered to be a reliable parameter for successful reduction of portal pressure using medical therapy. However, intolerance of propranolol requiring discontinuation of therapy has been observed in approximately 30 % of patients. Patients' compliance with medication may represent another drawback of medical therapy. The role of endoscopic band ligation in secondary prophylaxis is now indisputable, especially in comparison with sclerotherapy. In the primary prevention of variceal bleeding, band ligation is beginning to have a competitive edge over pharmacological therapy. Acute variceal bleeding is no longer a frequent morbid emergency. Most cases of bleeding can now be managed successfully with band ligation and N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate obliteration. N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate has come into increasingly widespread use in the treatment of bleeding gastric fundal varices in which surgery or transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunting were previously regarded as the preferred therapies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12566015
To compare the efficacy and safety of timolol 0.5%/dorzolamide 2% fixed combination vs timolol maleate 0.5% and unoprostone 0.15% given twice daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12566870
To compare two gel-forming timolol maleate ophthalmic solutions, Timoptol XE and Lizmon TG, in regard to efficacy and tolerability in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension by means of a patient-masked prospective randomized crossover study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12566891
In a prospective, randomised, double-masked, parallel-group, multi-centre study, 210 patients with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension were enrolled of whom 167 (timolol 0.1% gel 82, timolol 0.5% 85) completed the study as per protocol. The change in intraocular pressure between baseline and week 12 in the worse eye ('at trough') was 6.3 (SD 3.3) mm Hg on timolol 0.1% gel and 7.0 (2.9) mm Hg on timolol 0.5%; this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.19). The difference between the two study groups in the change of intraocular pressure from baseline was 0.62 mm Hg; the 90% CI of -0.09 to +1.33 mm Hg was within the pre-specified limits of -1.5 to +1.5 mm Hg demonstrating equivalence between timolol 0.1% gel and timolol 0.5%. The plasma levels of timolol (ng/ml) at 12 weeks in the timolol 0.1% gel group were significantly less than that with timolol 0.5% both before instillation (mean 0.057, SD 0.131 and mean 0.470, SD 0.519 respectively, p = 0.025) and after instillation (mean 0.552, SD 0.992 and mean 2.473, SD 1.780 respectively, p = 0.008). Both treatments were well tolerated with no statistically significant difference between the groups in the occurrence of ocular or systemic adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12570793
This review summarizes physiology of circulating and local renin-angiotensin system (RAS), enzymatic properties and mechanism of action of angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) on RAS, and implications of ACEIs in anesthetic management of patients treated with these drugs. ACEIs, through their effect on RAS, may improve cardiovascular functions, pulmonary dynamics, and body fluid homeostasis. Thus, ACEIs have become an integral part of management of patients with hypertension, congestive heart failure (CHF) and chronic renal disease. ACEIs, due to differences in their chemical structure, exert different pharmacological actions and can have protective or occasional damaging effects on different organs. The anesthesiologists are commonly involved in the management of patients treated with ACEIs. Thus, the role of ACEIs and their possible interaction with anesthetic agents must be an integral part of clinical decision-making during anesthesia Hemodynamic variation during anesthesia is mainly related to specific effects of anesthetic agents on sympathetic nervous system. Those with preoperative fasting, volume depletion and extended sympathetic blockade can have reduced vascular capacitance resulting in decreased venous return, reduced cardiac output and severe arterial hypotension. Angiotensin II (ANG2) a potent vasoconstrictor may counterbalance such hypotensive effect. During ACE inhibition ANG2 cannot counterbalance this hypotension. Thus, induction of anesthesia may cause severe hypotension in hypovolemic patients specifically in those receiving diuretics as a complement to ACEIs. Recent advances in RAS and the pharmacology of ACEIs have identified some predisposing factors and risks associated with anesthesia in patients treated with ACEIs. Practitioners should be vigilant, and readily have vasopressors, necessary fluids and other resuscitative measures for treatment of unexpected hemodynamic instability during anesthesia and surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12574534
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12574539
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12580985
In chronic renal failure, the clearance of most ACE inhibitors including enalapril is reduced. Hence, with conventional dosage, plasma enalaprilat may be markedly elevated. It is unclear whether this excess of drug exposure affords an improved control of blood pressure. The aim of the present study was to evaluate short-term blood pressure response to two different plasma levels of enalaprilat.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12584370
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12585949
Beta-blockers remain underused despite their established utility for improving outcome in heart failure. Concerns that initiation of treatment produces few immediate benefits and may have important risks may be deterring widespread use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12586182
To evaluate the comparative efficacy of latanoprost monotherapy versus combined carteolol and pilocarpine therapy in patients with newly diagnosed glaucoma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12590013
Diabetes mellitus is occurring in epidemic proportions in many countries. In Australia 7.4% of people over 25 years of age have diabetes (mostly type 2) and comparable or higher prevalences have been reported in the United States and a number of Asian countries. The enormous economic and social cost of this disease makes a compelling case for prevention. Epidemiological studies have shown clearly that type 2 diabetes results from an interaction between a genetic predisposition and lifestyle factors including obesity, sedentary behaviour and both calorie excess and various dietary constituents. The natural history of type 2 diabetes includes a preceding period of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT)/impaired fasting glucose (IFG) which provides an opportunity for targeted intervention within large communities. Lifestyle intervention studies have consistently shown that quite modest changes can reduce the progression from IGT to diabetes by 50-60%. It may, however, not be possible to translate these successful findings to larger cohorts or maintain the lifestyle changes longer term. This has lead to consideration of pharmacotherapy. While small studies with sulphonylureas are inconclusive, benefits have been found for metformin, acarbose and troglitazone. Big intervention studies with ramipril, rosiglitazone, valsartan and nateglinide are underway. Pharmacological intervention raises a whole range of ethical, economic and practical issues not the least of which is the problem of long term therapy of the 'otherwise well'.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12594150
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12595838
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common complication of heart surgery. Previous studies have shown that there is an association between postoperative AF and prolongation of hospital length of stay. No previous trials have been primarily directed at demonstrating that the use of drugs that prevent AF would shorten length of stay and reduce the costs of postoperative care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12599843
Left ventricular hypertrophy is a strong independent predictor of risk of cardiovascular morbidity and death. The aim of the LIFE-study was to establish whether treatment with the angiotensin-II AT 1-receptor antagonist, losartan, reduced cardiovascular events more effectively than treatment with the betablocker atenolol in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12599844
The most suitable antihypertensive drug to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with hypertension and diabetes is unclear. In a prespecified analysis of the LIFE-study we compared the effects of losartan and atenolol on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12600135
Understanding the role of inflammation in childhood asthma has led to major changes in the approach to management of this disease. Based on the guidelines from the NIH, inhaled long-term control medications that target the underlying inflammatory processes in asthma are now recommended as the mainstay of drug treatment. Long-term control medications are recommended for all children who have asthma symptoms that occur more frequently than twice weekly or nocturnal symptoms more than twice monthly. Environmental control measures to decrease allergen exposure are important, as is attention to sinusitis and GER. The main impediment to improved asthma care is poor patient compliance. Many patients do not understand the role and importance of prophylactic medications in asthma treatment. Further, inconvenient dosing regimens, difficulties with metered-dose inhalers, and fear of potential side effects have all contributed to poor patient compliance. Increased efforts at patient education are needed to improve adherence to asthma plans. These efforts at improving patient compliance, along with improved physician adherence to the guidelines from the NIH, are needed to decrease the morbidity and mortality of childhood asthma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12602461
Previous studies have demonstrated that beta-blockade increases the levels of plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), but relationships between this effect and the antihypertensive action of beta-blockade remain unknown. In this study we investigated the amplitude and determinants of bisoprolol-induced ANP increase and the relationships between this increase and the antihypertensive effect of bisoprolol. Nineteen patients with mild to moderate hypertension were included in the study. In the first phase of the study (cross-over, placebo controlled, randomized phase), the effects of 10 mg bisoprolol on plasma ANP at rest and during exercise were compared to placebo. The antihypertensive action of bisoprolol was then evaluated after a 2-week period of treatment (10 mg/day) using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Bisoprolol significantly increased plasma ANP level at rest (from 30.6 +/- 20.5 to 42.8 +/- 35.6; P < 0.05) and also during exercise (from 54.7 +/- 44.3 to 119.1 +/- 159.9; pg/mL +/- SD; P < 0.05). Plasma ANP at rest was not significantly correlated with left ventricular mass. After the 15 days of treatment, the bisoprolol-induced daytime diastolic blood pressure reduction was significantly correlated to the initial bisoprolol-induced plasma ANP increase (r = 0.49, P = 0.035). These results suggest that the antihypertensive effect of beta-blocking agents could be partly mediated by an increase of ANP release.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605549
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors preserve native kidney function in patients with renal disease better than other antihypertensive drugs, most likely because they more effectively reduce proteinuria. The plasma concentration of the ACE inhibitors target is, at least in part, under genetic control. A polymorphism of the ACE gene based on the presence or absence of a 287 base pair element in intron 16 accounts for 47% of the total phenotypic variance in the plasma ACE levels of healthy individuals. Unfortunately, pharmacogenetic studies performed so far do not provide a clear answer as to whether the efficacy of the reduction of proteinuria by ACE inhibitors is influenced by the ACE genotype - probably because these studies were not primarily designed to answer this question. This paper will try to outline some aspects that should be considered before an appropriate study on this topic is initiated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605566
Properties of several new antiarrhythmic drugs are summarised in this review article. Recent concepts concerning their safety and efficacy of antiarrhythmics are discussed. A brief perspective on possible future strategies for pharmacotherapy of arrhythmias is provided.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605568
The goal of this article is to update the reader and focus on novel therapies and clinical trials published since our last review [6]. Evidence suggests that drug intervention should target one or all of three biological processes: vascular disease, autoimmunity and tissue fibrosis. Efforts should be made to classify the subtype of scleroderma, to determine the activity of the disease process and the degree of specific organ involvement before specific treatment decisions are made. Cyclophosphamide in fibrosing alveolitis, intravenous prostaglandins and other vasodilators for the vascular disease, endothelin-1 inhibition in pulmonary hypertension and immunosuppressive therapy for early inflammatory disease, all appear to have benefit. Several agents used in vitro and in animal models of fibrosis also show promise including anti-transforming growth factor-beta, the statins and anti-integrins. More experience in well-designed clinical trials is needed to define the role of these agents in treating scleroderma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12613089
Sports medicine practitioners who care for a wide array of athletes and active individuals will consistently face issues regarding chronic cardiovascular diseases and their associated risk factors. Among these, hypertension, obesity, and dyslipidemia are common clinical conditions that may be encountered even amongst elite caliber athletes. Consequently, those entrusted with the care of this active population must recognize the presence of these disorders and feel comfortable with their management in the face of continued sports or exercise participation. This article reviews the pathophysiology of these conditions as they relate to athletes and outlines the value of continued exercise in the management of each of these entities while addressing the specific and unique treatment needs of active individuals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12615283
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12615783
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12615784
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12616463
Sexual dysfunction is a common finding in both men and women with chronic kidney failure. Common disturbances include erectile dysfunction in men, menstrual abnormalities in women, and decreased libido and fertility in both sexes. These abnormalities are primarily organic in nature and are related to uremia as well as the other comorbid conditions that frequently occur in the chronic kidney failure patient. Fatigue and psychosocial factors related to the presence of a chronic disease are also contributory factors. Disturbances in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis can be detected before the need for dialysis but continue to worsen once dialytic therapy is initiated. Impaired gonadal function is prominent in uremic men, whereas the disturbances in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis are more subtle. By contrast, central disturbances are more prominent in uremic women. Therapy is initially directed toward optimizing the delivery of dialysis, correcting anemia with recombinant erythropoietin, and controlling the degree of secondary hyperparathyroidism with vitamin D. For many practicing nephrologists, sildenafil has become the first line therapy in the treatment of impotence. In the hypogonadal man whose only complaint is decreased libido, testosterone may be of benefit. Regular gynecologic follow-up is required in uremic women to guard against potential complications of unopposed estrogen effect. Uremic women should be advised against pregnancy while on dialysis. Successful transplantation is the most effective means of restoring normal sexual function in both men and women with chronic kidney failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12617406
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12619016
Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunts (TIPS) have been used in the treatment of complications of portal hypertension. TIPS is used for the control of acute variceal bleeding and for the prevention of vericeal rebleeding when pharmacologic therapy and endoscopic therapy have failed. Patients with refractory ascites with adequate hepatic reserve and renal function who fail to respond to large volume paracentesis may be reasonable candidates for TIPS. Promising indications for TIPS are Budd-Chiari syndrome uncontrolled by medical therapy, severe portal hypertensive gastropathy, refractory hepatic hydrothorax, and hepatorenal syndrome. TIPS cannot be recommended for preoperative portal decompression solely to facilitate liver transplantation. Special care should be taken to insure proper placement of the stent to avoid increasing the technical difficulty of the transplantation procedure. The major limiting factors for TIPS success are shunt dysfunction and hepatic encephalopathy. Because shunt stenosis is the most important cause of recurrent complications of portal hypertension, a surveillance program to monitor shunt patency is mandatory. The MELD score may be useful in predicting post-TIPS survival, and also in counseling patients and their families.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12619740
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12620132
Various cardiovascular drugs have been shown to have neuropsychiatric effects that can be harmful or therapeutically beneficial to patients. As an example, both sedation and mental depression have been described in patients receiving centrally acting antihypertensive drugs and beta-adrenergic blockers, related to their antiadrenergic actions. In contrast, because of these antiadrenergic actions, agents like clonidine have been used to treat opiate, alcohol, and nicotine withdrawal, while beta blockers have been used to treat symptoms of performance anxiety, migraine, and psychocardiac disorders. Some antiarrhythmic drugs have been associated with delirium, and digitalis toxicity has been shown to cause hallucinations, mania, euphoria, and depression. The calcium-channel blocker verapamil has been used as an adjunctive treatment in patients with bipolar disorders. Since neuropsychiatric symptoms are seen in patients with cardiovascular disease, clinicians should be aware of the possible relationship between these symptoms and concurrent cardiovascular drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12622571
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12623832
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of the 2% dorzolamide/0.5% timolol combination ophthalmic solution twice daily to the concomitant administration of 0.2% brimonidine ophthalmic solution twice daily and 0.5% timolol ophthalmic solution twice daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12624564
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12624713
Migraine with aura (MwA) is a primary headache that affects about 30% of migraine sufferers. The main questions for the physician caring for the patient who has MwA are: when to use preventive medications, what medications to use in acute and preventive treatment, and whether the aura should be treated. The aim of this paper is to review the various therapeutic options for MwA proposed in the current literature and to evaluate their efficacy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12628894
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12630981
For ethical and economic reasons, interim analysis of phase III clinical trials is essential. This study was conducted to compare the efficiency of two interim analysis procedures, which could be used to allow early termination of a clinical trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12635070
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12636467
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12639076
Sudden cardiac death is common in persons with cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12639086
Internists and cardiologists are often asked to estimate the risk for perioperative myocardial infarction or cardiac death in patients being considered for noncardiac surgery. Estimating this risk in an individual patient is difficult and complex. Although noninvasive imaging tests are often used for this purpose, a review of the literature reveals that the positive predictive value of noninvasive imaging tests is uniformly low and that they do not provide information beyond that obtained by assessing simple clinical risk variables. Moreover, no evidence exists that noninvasive imaging tests lead to a therapeutic strategy that reduces the risk for perioperative myocardial infarction or cardiac death. Since the publication of guidelines for preoperative risk stratification by the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association in 1996 and the American College of Physicians in 1997, three clinical trials have shown that beta-blocker therapy reduces the risk for perioperative cardiac events. This paper focuses on the relationship between risk stratification and subsequent therapy to minimize or eliminate risk. In short, the paradigm is shifting from predicting which patient is at high risk for having a perioperative cardiac event to minimizing the likelihood of such an event with specific perioperative pharmacologic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12640257
Hypertension is associated with a number of adverse morphologic and functional changes in the cardiovascular system, including left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy. Studies have demonstrated that bradykinin, through the B2 bradykinin receptor (B2BKR), mediates important cardiovascular effects that may protect against LV hypertrophy. Recently, a +9/-9 exon 1 polymorphism of the B2BKR was shown to be strongly associated with LV growth response among normotensive males undergoing physical training. We aimed to clarify whether the processes found in exercise-induced LV growth in normotensive people also occur in pathological LV hypertrophy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12640278
Amiodarone has gained recognition as an antiarrhythmic medication after recent publication of the newly revised American Heart Association guidelines for pediatric resuscitation. Although support for the widespread use of amiodarone in adults has been supported by research, the few pediatric studies demonstrate limited efficacy and highlight the need for additional data. Because of the nature of the need for this type of resuscitation medication, controlled prospective studies will be difficult to obtain if not morally contraindicated. This article reviews the properties of amiodarone and the pertinent pediatric studies to provide healthcare providers supplemental information regarding amiodarone when choosing antiarrhythmics for acute resuscitation. Individual providers need to discern whether the pediatric data available supports widespread acceptance into current treatment regimens.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12643877
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12643883
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12643886
Chronic stable angina is a common condition, but considerable differences exist in the likelihood of acute coronary events such as CHD death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) and unstable angina between individual patients. Effective risk prediction is necessary for optimum management. The aim of this study was to identify clinical features and non-invasive test parameters associated with high risk of these coronary events in stable angina and compose a clinically useful model to predict adverse outcomes in this population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12643888
Whether all patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) need to reach the target dose of beta-blocker to obtain a benefit in terms of survival remains uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12648985
Variceal bleeding is the most frequent severe complication of portal hypertension and a leading cause of death and liver transplantation in patients with cirrhosis. Patients surviving a variceal bleed are at high risk of rebleeding (over 60% at 1 year). Portacaval shunts and transjugular intrahepatic portasystemic shunts (TIPS) are effective for prevention of rebleeding but carry a high risk of hepatic encephalopathy. Endoscopic techniques include band ligation (EBL) and injection sclerotherapy (EIS). Drug approaches are based on non-selective beta blocker with or without isosorbide-5-mononitrate (ISMN).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12652105
Hypertension is one of the major killers in the modern world and one of the great ironies of the disease is that it has little or no immediate effect on affected individuals' quality of life (QOL). This makes treatment very difficult, as most medications will affect QOL negatively, either through side effects or through the change in life-style associated with chronic drug regimens. This review describes some of the conceptual background for QOL measurements and looks at the effects on QOL of different antihypertensive treatments available today. The latest addition to the range of antihypertensive drugs, angiotensin II-receptor blockers, may be a significant step forward in treatment, as their ease of dosing and excellent tolerability minimise negative effects on patients while their possible benefits on factors such as sexual function may even improve QOL in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12652116
Type 2 diabetes is becoming very common and is closely linked to physical inactivity and obesity. It is associated with clustering of coronary risk factors and 60-80% of cases have hypertension. The first therapeutic action is appropriate adjustment of life style. Anti-hypertensive therapies such as diuretics, ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists have been effective in reducing cardiovascular events in type 2 diabetes, though calcium antagonists may be less effective than older therapies and ACE-inhibitors in reducing the risk of heart attacks and heart failure (but possibly more effective in stroke reduction). Beta-blockers (BBs) have a poor image as a potential therapy due to apparent adverse effects on surrogate end-points such as insulin-resistance. However large, controlled trials have shown BBs to be highly effective in reducing the risk of cardiovascular events and death in post myocardial infarction patients with diabetes. The UKPDS study in type 2 diabetics with hypertension showed first-line beta-blockade to be at least as effective as ACE-inhibition in preventing all primary macrovascular and microvascular end-points. The active ingredient appears to be beta-1 blockade, acting not only to lower blood pressure but also to prevent sudden death and cardiovascular damage stemming from chronic beta-1 stimulation associated with raised noradrenaline activity. By contrast, in the LIFE study atenolol was less effective than the angiotensin receptor antagonist losartan in reducing cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality in mainly elderly hypertensives with diabetes. Thus the best beta-blocker results in reducing hard cardiovascular end-points occur in hypertension studies (including the UKPDS study) involving younger/middle aged (say less than 60-65 years) patients, with relatively high sympathetic activity, relatively compliant/elastic arteries (narrow pulse-pressure) and normally functioning beta-1 receptors. In elderly hypertensive patients beta-blockers may be given as second-line therapy on the back of a low-dose diuretic (but possibly as first line agent in elderly hypertensives with prior myocardial infarction). Thus inappropriate attention to surrogate end-points can lead to faulty prescribing habits. Beta-blockers, currently severely underprescribed, should be considered as a first line therapeutic option for all diabetics with ischaemic heart disease or younger/middle aged diabetics with hypertension (but co-prescribed with low dose diuretic therapy in the elderly). The active ingredient for cardiovascular protection appears to be beta-1 blockade; optimal efficacy in lowering blood pressure and safety e.g. reducing risk of bronchoconstriction, is achieved by choosing an agent with high beta-1 selectivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12655281
The objective of this meta-analysis was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of the metabolic agent trimetazidine (TMZ), both in monotherapy and in combination with other antianginal agents, in the treatment of stable angina pectoris. A search of literature published between 1985 and 2001 was performed on computerized databases (MEDLINE and EMBASE).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12656712
To investigate the response to sumatriptan in migraineurs with unilateral cranial autonomic symptoms such as lacrimation, eye redness, eyelid edema, nasal congestion, and rhinorrhea.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12658255
Droperidol is a butyrophenone commonly used as an antiemetic and antipsychotic in the United States since US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval in 1970. Its labeling has recently been revised, with a black box warning for cases of QT prolongation leading to torsades de pointes and death. A black box warning is applied when serious adverse drug reactions are uncovered for medications. We sought to examine the evidence of a causal association suggested by the black box warning to aid clinicians in their risk-benefit analyses regarding further use of droperidol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12661775
This review of paroxetine is based on Medline and PsycLit searches and a manual search of the available research literature. It aims to cover the pharmacology of this frequently prescribed SSRI antidepressant in terms of its indications, efficacy and adverse effects. Overall, paroxetine is a well-tolerated and safe first-line SSRI antidepressant with anxiolytic qualities. It has been found useful in depression, anxiety and other conditions such as obsessive compulsive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder. The antidepressant has some advantages over earlier tricyclic medication in terms of a lack of cardiovascular side-effects and relative safety in overdose. Cessation of use, however, is associated with withdrawal or discontinuation symptoms and patients should be counselled as to how these might be avoided. A 3- or 4-week graded withdrawal regimen, perhaps with concomitant fluoxetine to cover serotonergic discontinuation symptoms, may be advisable.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12661910
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12663237
The role of angiotensin II (AT-II) type I receptor antagonists in the treatment of portal hypertension remains controversial. We tested the efficacy of Irbesartan (Irb) vs. Propranolol (Pro) in reducing portal pressure and evaluated its systemic haemodynamic effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12667031
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12667032
Hypertension in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus is a prevalent condition that leads to substantial morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12667107
Migraine is a common neurological disorder that afflicts > or = 12% of the adult US population. Severe, frequent and disabling attacks require effective prophylaxis. Traditional preventive drugs such as beta-blockers, antidepressants and calcium antagonists, despite their documented efficacy, fail to offer relief for a significant proportion of migraine sufferers. Multiple threads of research over the last 15 years have led to the concept that migraine is generated from a hyperexcitable brain. This opens new perspectives in terms of preventive options, especially regarding the anticonvulsants agents. Additionally, different groups of substances, some of which nominated as non-orthodox agents, have been recently subjected to clinical trials and found to be effective. The aim of this review is to present and discuss the new options for migraine prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12667111
Chronic daily headache (CDH) or highly frequent headaches are being recognised as an increasing problem. In adults it is estimated that up to 4% of the population has CDH, however, this number appears to be lower in children. The actual prevalence of CDH in children, however, has not been determined. The simplest definition of CDH is > 15 headache days per month. In the international headache society (IHS) criteria, only chronic tension-type headaches and chronic cluster headaches are recognised as CDH. Criteria for CDH have been suggested for adults that mirror the IHS criteria. In children, the majority of CDH appear to be migraine related. The next revision of the IHS criteria has been proposed to include chronic migraine as one of the CDH. Evaluation of CDH needs to include a complete history and physical examination to identify any possibility of the headache representing secondary headaches. Treatment and management involves a multi-tiered approach, which includes abortive therapy when the headache becomes more severe. With the precaution of avoiding overuse of analgesic medication, prophylactic therapy is used to help reduce the characteristics of the headache as well as the frequency and mild behavioural therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12668487
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12669941
Heart failure is a devastating chronic and progressive cardiac disorder affecting millions of Americans annually. Identifying the cause and initiating treatment early is the key to attempting to slow the progression of the condition. Recommended therapy is treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, diuretics, digoxin, beta blockers, and in patients with symptomatic class III and IV heart failure, the addition of aldactone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12669942
Coronary artery disease is the primary risk factor for left ventricular systolic dysfunction and the most common cause of heart failure. Heart failure is the prevailing diagnosis for hospital admissions in the United States for people over 65 years of age. It has a great impact on the health care delivery system as a whole for both inpatient and outpatient treatment. A comprehensive understanding of this disease state is paramount for health care providers. This article describes the epidemiology, risk factors, pathophysiology, and current treatment modalities for left ventricular systolic dysfunction related to heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12669947
Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is the leading cause of death in advanced heart failure and cardiomyopathy patients, regardless of the underlying causes of cardiomyopathy. Ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation are the causes of SCD. This article examines pharmacological interventions and mostly, the role of implantable cardioverter defibrllators in preventing SCD in heart failure patients. The indications for various methods of treatment of SCD are discussed in this article.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12670819
Congenital long QT syndrome is characterized by a corrected QT interval of at least 440 msec on the electrocardiogram and has been associated with recurrent syncope, documented ventricular arrhythmia and sudden death. There have been numerous articles over the past 20 years describing isolated instances of surgical and anesthesia related complications but the general anesthetic management of the condition remains unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12671333
Abrupt onset of severe uncontrolled hypertension and rapidly progressive oliguric renal failure characterizes scleroderma renal crisis. The etiology is unclear, but very high renin levels are present. While scleroderma is more common in women and whites, there is no difference in the prevalence of scleroderma renal crisis by gender. However, there appears to be a higher prevalence of scleroderma renal crisis among African Americans than whites. Survival was dismal prior to the introduction of the vigorous treatment of hypertension and use of converting-enzyme inhibitors. However, most data on the benefit of these medications are derived from uncontrolled and unblinded studies. Prospective, randomized controlled trials are needed to assess the role of angiotensin receptor blockers. Prevention trials could define the role of various drugs in decreasing the rate of scleroderma renal crisis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12671336
Accumulating evidence indicates that inflammatory cytokines play a pathogenic role in congestive heart failure (CHF) by influencing heart contractility, inducing hypertrophy, and promoting apoptosis or fibrosis, contributing to the continuous myocardial remodeling process. Traditional cardiovascular drugs seem to have little influence on the overall cytokine network, and immunomodulatory therapy has emerged as a possible new treatment modality in CHF. Several animal studies have suggested that modulation of inflammatory cytokines may improve cardiac performance. The authors have recently demonstrated that intravenous immunoglobulin enhances the left ventricular ejection fraction in CHF patients, and that this is significantly correlated with anti-inflammatory effects of such therapy. While intravenous immunoglobulin is not necessarily the drug of choice, this study suggests a potential role for immunomodulatory therapy in CHF in addition to optimal cardiovascular treatment regimens. Further research will more precisely identify the most important actors in the immunopathogenesis of CHF and contribute to the development of more specific immunomodulating agents for this disorder.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12673376
Bleeding from varices is a very serious complication in cirrhotic patients, with a mean mortality rate around 30 %. If the portal vein pressure is decreased by pharmacological therapy the varices will not bleed and progressively decrease in size. The portal hypertension in cirrhotic patients develops as a consequence of two mechanisms: the increase of portal inflow and the increase of intrahepatic resistance. The aim of our study was to find out if propranolol can prevent the bleeding from esophageal varices and if it acts by reducing the portal inflow due to splanchnic vasodilatation. The study was initiated in 53 patients with portal hypertension, of whom 14 were withdrawn because of adverse effects of propranolol. Abdominal ultrasonography and Doppler of portal vein system were performed in all subjects. The ultrasonographic parameters were measured before and after a 3-year treatment with propranolol. The patients also underwent endoscopy for evaluation of esophageal varices; the endoscopy was repeated at the end-point of treatment. We noted that propranolol reduced the portal blood inflow and the size of esophageal varices, and that the incidence of hemorrhages by variceal rupture was very low in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12673778
Diabetic nephropathy is one of the most frequent causes of end-stage renal disease (ESRD), and, in recent years, the number of diabetic patients entering renal replacement therapy has dramatically increased. The magnitude of the problem has led to numerous efforts to identify preventive and therapeutic strategies. In normoalbuminuric patients, optimal glycemic control (HbA(1c) lower than 7.5%) plays a fundamental role in the primary prevention of ESRD [weighted mean relative risk reduction (RRR) approximately 37% for metabolic control versus trivial renoprotection for intensive anti-hypertensive therapy or ACE-inhibitors (ACE-I)]. In the microalbuminuric stage, strict glycemic control probably reduces the incidence of overt nephropathy (weighted mean RRR approximately 50%), while blood pressure levels below 130/80 mmHg are recommended according to the average blood pressure levels obtained in various studies. In normotensive patients, ACE-I markedly reduce the development of overt nephropathy almost regardless of blood pressure levels; in hypertensive patients, ACE-I are less clearly active (weighted mean RRR approximately 23% versus other drugs), whereas angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARB) appear strikingly renoprotective. Once overt proteinuria appears, it is uncertain whether glycemic control affects the progression of nephropathy. In type 1 diabetes, various anti-hypertensive treatments, mainly ACE-I, are effective in slowing down the progression of nephropathy; in type 2 diabetes, two recent studies demonstrate that ARB are superior to conventional therapy or calcium channel blockers (CCB). In clinical practice, pharmacological tools are not always used to the best benefit of the patients. Therefore, clinicians and patients need to be educated regarding the renoprotection of drugs inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and the overwhelming importance of achieving target blood pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12674472
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12675696
Arterial hypertension is, besides age, the number one risk factor for ischaemic stroke. Patients with arterial hypertension frequently present with additional coexisting vascular risk factors interacting in a complex way.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12678218
The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) compared four antihypertensive agents in patients 55 years and older: chlorthalidone, doxazosin, amlodipine, and lisinopril. The doxazosin arm was terminated early because of an excess of congestive heart failure. Chlorthalidone was at least equivalent to amlodipine and lisinopril in all of the outcomes measured, and was better in some, notably heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12678691
The so-called "classic" histamine H(1) receptor antagonists are highly lipophilic compounds associated with significant biotransformation and tissue distribution. They are categorized according to their chemical structure into ethanolamines, alkylamines, ethylenediamines, piperazines, phenothiazines and piperidines, all of which have characteristic metabolic fates. The former four categories undergo primarily cytochrome P450-mediated oxidative N-desalkylations and deamination whereas the aromatic rings of the latter two undergo P450-mediated oxidative hydroxylation and/or epoxide formation. The common tertiary amino group is susceptible to oxidative metabolism by flavin containing monooxygenases forming N-oxides, and the alicyclic tertiary amines produce small amounts (up to 7%) of N-glucuronides in humans. Species, sex and racial differences in the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of antihistamines are known. Specific P450-isozymes implicated in the metabolism were identified in a few cases, such as CYP2D6 that contributes to the metabolism of promethazine, diphenhydramine and chlorpheniramine. Low circulating plasma concentrations of antihistamines are in part explained by significant first-pass effect and tissue distribution. Antihistaminic effects last up to 6 hours though some compounds exhibit a longer duration of action due to circulating active metabolites. Importantly, diphenhydramine inhibited CYP2D6 leading to a clinically significant drug-drug interaction with metoprolol. Other classic antihistamines were shown to be potent in vitro inhibitors of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. The prescription-free access to most classic antihistamines can easily lead to their co-administration with other drugs metabolized by the same enzyme system thereby leading to drug accumulation and adverse effects. In depth knowledge of the metabolic pathways of classic antihistamines and the enzymes involved is crucial to prevent the high incidence of drug interactions in humans, which are predictable based on pre-clinical data but unexpected when such data is unavailable.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12678857
Arterial stiffness is the most important cause of increasing systolic and pulse pressure, and for decreasing diastolic pressure with ageing. Many measures can be applied to quantify arterial stiffness, but all are approximations only, on account of the nonhomogenous structure of the arterial wall, its variability in different locations, at different levels of distending pressure, and with changes in smooth muscle tone. This article summarizes those indices with a focus on newer non-invasive methods and provides an overview of physiological, pathological and pharmacological influences on arterial hemodynamics. In the near future, the ability to detect and monitor subclinical arterial damage will improve cardiovascular risk stratification and act as a better guide in assessing the efficacy of therapeutic interventions than monitoring blood pressure alone. However, large-scale clinical trials are needed to prove the hypothesis that treatment of these new therapeutic targets will translate into clinical benefit, expressed in cardiovascular events or even mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12679216
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12679750
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12680475
Although recent advances have been made in the treatment of heart failure, this disease continues to result in significant morbidity and mortality. Among the negative effects associated with progression of heart failure are decline in myocardial reserve, decreased exercise tolerance, decreased contractile function, and altered cardiac gene expression. Guidelines recommend neurohormonal antagonists for treatment and stress the importance of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition and beta-blockade in reversing the cardiac remodeling process. beta-Blockade slows or reverses the adverse effects resulting from chronic adrenergic stimulation. Traditionally, beta-blockers were reserved for mild-to-moderate heart failure, based on evidence from large, randomized clinical trials showing their positive effects on myocardial function and clinical outcomes. More recently, clinical data reveal that the agents can be expanded to patients with severe heart failure and those with left ventricular systolic dysfunction after myocardial infarction. Individual beta-blocking agents vary in their pharmacology and dosing requirements. These variations may influence treatment decisions and affect clinical measurements of left ventricular function and ventricular remodeling.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12683600
Despite advances in perioperative management, thoracic surgery remains a high-risk procedure for many patients. A systematic review of cardiac complications after thoracic surgery is presented. Most reviews about noncardiac thoracic surgery discuss postoperative analgesic regimens and pulmonary complications. In the present review, we also discuss atrial fibrillation as the most frequently encountered cardiac side effect. An evidence-based approach to other complications, such as myocardial ischemia, pulmonary edema, embolism, and shunt, is described. Furthermore, we offer recommendations for daily practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12684599
In light of the increasing prevalence, morbidity, and mortality of heart failure, effective preventative strategies are urgently needed. Risk factors for heart failure include coronary artery disease and other atherosclerotic vascular diseases, hypertension, diabetes, renal insufficiency, obesity, and family history of cardiomyopathy. Essential strategies for prevention of heart failure are modification of risk factors for heart failure development; comprehensive hypertension, atherosclerosis, and diabetes treatment; and detection and treatment of asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction. The B-type natriuretic peptide assay may aid in identifying asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction in patients with risk factors for heart failure. In patients with hypertension, atherosclerosis, and/or diabetes, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, beta-blocker, aspirin, and statin therapy can prevent progression to symptomatic heart failure. Avoidance of calcium channel-blockers as first-line antihypertensive therapy can also reduce the risk of heart failure. There remain substantial opportunities to improve implementation of therapies proven to prevent heart failure in the large number of patients at risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12684601
When a previously healthy, middle-aged patient presents with apparent seizures, what should alert the physician to the possibility of underlying cardiac disease? This report describes a case of long QT syndrome, initially presenting as seizures, which expressed itself at an atypically advanced age as a result of cocaine use, global myocardial ischemia, and ventricular tachycardia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12690915
Significant differences between sexes may influence the prevalence, incidence and severity of the heart failure syndrome. These differences may also interfere with treatment and management. In this review sex differences and similarities have been analyzed focusing on epidemiology, drug therapy and psychological implications. Pathophysiological differences but also a selection bias are evident; such differences bear an influence on clinical management. Gender differences exist even in the health-related quality of life, depression and coping ability. No studies have been specifically designed to investigate gender differences and the exclusion of elderly persons (mainly women) from large trials may compromise the quality of their care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12691286
Cardiac remodelling is now recognised as an important aspect of cardiovascular disease progression and is, therefore, emerging as a therapeutic target in cardiac failure due to different etiologies. Little is known about the influence of different therapies for cardiac failure on the remodelling seen in infants with congenital cardiac disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12693729
Beta-blockers are a highly effective treatment for patients with all grades of heart failure secondary to LV systolic dysfunction. Beta-blockers are best deployed as a form of tertiary prevention in heart failure but have a very limited role for the treatment of a heart failure crisis. Physicians and patients need to understand the time course of the effects of beta-blocker therapy. The initial effects are often neutral or adverse, though the benefits, at least of carvedilol, may be apparent within days in patients with severe heart failure. Benefits accumulate gradually over a period of weeks to months. Some patience, perseverance, and education are required in order to allow patients to reap the full benefits of beta-blocker therapy for this malignant disease. Initiation of treatment early in the course of the disease maximizes the effectiveness and acceptance of therapy. Trials are under way to determine whether the benefits of beta-blockers extend to patients over 80 years of age and to those with preserved LV systolic function. It is likely that important differences exist between beta-blockers in terms of their clinical benefit, though whether differences exist between the agents that have been reported to be effective so far awaits the outcome of a large clinical trial. It is unclear whether the target doses of beta-blockers currently recommended are optimal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12693740
Information on the probable efficacy and safety of drugs for individualized patients should change both the economics and the management of congestive heart failure. Rapidly profiling patients should enhance the ability to develop "designer" drugs for those with similar disease phenotypes. Pharmacogenomics also may resurrect promising drugs that did not show benefit when previously added to standard therapy. The promise of pharmacogenomics has to be tempered, however, by a sensitivity to concerns regarding the potential misuse of genomic information, including loss of confidentiality for the patient, as well as possible stigmatization of groups. Such difficult genoethical issues must be addressed in order to reap the full benefits of this evolving and exciting field.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695241
To compare the circadian intraocular pressure (IOP) reductions induced by latanoprost, brimonidine tartrate, and a fixed combination of timolol maleate and dorzolamide hydrochloride in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or ocular hypertension (OHT).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695290
Sudden Unexplained Death Syndrome (SUDS) is the leading cause of death in young, healthy, Southeast Asian men. The role of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for mortality reduction in these patients remains unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695723
CHF is highly prevalent in ESRD and is a leading cause of death in such patients. Hypertension, renal anemia, and comorbid conditions such as coronary artery disease are particularly important risk factors for CHF in ESRD. Dialysis hypotension may be a marker of poor prognosis in such persons. Recent studies suggest that lipid peroxidation and L-carnitine deficiency may contribute to CHF in some patients with ESRD. All forms of renal replacement therapy are capable of ameliorating symptoms of CHF, but their effect on cardiovascular mortality has not been firmly established. Drug therapy, particularly angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-adrenergic receptor blockers, is under-used in patients with ESRD and CHF. Heart/kidney transplantation may be a viable option for some patients with advanced CHF and ESRD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695725
Hypertension (HTN) contributes to the high incidence of cardiovascular disease mortality as well as chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) and late graft failure in renal transplant recipients. The mechanisms are complex and may involve pathogenic factors attributable to the host, allograft, and immunosuppressive drugs. Calcium channel blockers should be used to ameliorate the nephrotoxicity of calcineurin inhibitors in the early years after transplantation. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin-2 type-1 receptor blockers are safe and effective, have antiproteinuric effects, slow the progression of CAN, and may provide survival benefits. Diuretics and/or beta-adrenergic receptor blockers are frequently added in combination regimen. Appropriate adjustment of the immunosuppressive drugs should also be considered for the long-term care of kidney recipients with HTN.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695727
Even though cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in patients with CRF and end-stage renal disease (ESRD), ill-conceived notions have led to therapeutic nihilism as the predominant strategy in the management of cardiovascular disease in these populations. The recent data clearly support the application of proven interventions in the general population, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and statins to patients with CRF and ESRD. The advances in coronary stents and intracoronary irradiation have decreased the restenosis rates in renal failure patients. Coronary artery bypass with internal mammary graft might be the procedure of choice for coronary revascularization in these patients. The role of screening for asymptomatic coronary disease is established as a pretransplant procedure, but it is unclear whether this will be applicable to all patients with ESRD. Future studies need to focus on unraveling the mechanisms by which uremia leads to increased cardiovascular events to design optimal therapies targeted toward these mechanisms and improve cardiovascular outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12697002
The 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonists (the 'triptans') are migraine-specific agents that have revolutionised the treatment of migraine. They are usually the drugs of choice to treat a migraine attack in progress. Different triptans are available in various strengths and formulations, including oral tablets, orally disintegrating tablets, nasal sprays and subcutaneous injections. In Europe, sumatriptan is also available as a suppository. Specific differences among the triptans exist, as evidenced by different pharmacological profiles including half-life, time to peak plasma concentrations, peak plasma concentrations, area under the concentration-time curve, metabolism and drug-drug interaction profiles. How or whether these differences translate to clinical efficacy and tolerability advantages for one agent over another is not well differentiated. However, delivery systems may play an important role in onset of action. Given that the clinical distinctions among these agents are subtle, identification of the most appropriate triptan for an individual patient requires consideration of the specific characteristics of the patient and knowledge of patient preference, an accurate history of the efficacy of previous acute-care medications and individual features of the drug being considered. The selection of an acute antimigraine drug also depends upon the stratification of the patient's migraine attack by peak intensity, time to peak intensity, level of associated symptoms such as nausea and vomiting, time to associated symptoms, comorbid diseases and concomitant treatments that might cause drug-drug interactions. Individual patient response to the triptans seems to be idiosyncratic and possibly genetically determined. Therefore, a set of specific questions can be used to determine whether a currently used triptan is optimally effective, whether the dose needs to be increased or whether another triptan should be tried. The clinician has in his/her armamentarium an ever-expanding variety of triptans, available in multiple formulations and dosages, which have good safety and tolerability profiles. Continued clinical use will yield familiarity with the various triptans, and it should become possible for the interested physician to match individual patient needs with the specific characteristics of a triptan to optimise therapeutic benefit. Use of the methods outlined in this review in choosing a triptan for an individual patient is probably more likely to lead to migraine relief than making an educated guess as to which triptan is most appropriate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12699397
Epidemiological studies in the past decade have stressed the importance of pulse pressure (PP) as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. We briefly review the epidemiological evidence and discuss the pathophysiological mechanisms which involve arterial stiffness and wave reflections in older patients. We discuss the therapeutic consequences of targeting PP rather than systolic (S) or diastolic (D) blood pressure (BP) when using antihypertensive agents. With this line of evidence it is important, first, to determine what minimal PP level indicates cardiovascular risk and, second, to note that an increasing number of clinical studies indicate that PP is poorly sensitive to placebo, while SBP and DBP are conversely highly sensitive. Finally, on the basis of large-scale intervention trials, PP seems to be an appropriate tool for studies of clinical pharmacology and therapeutics in the fields of hypertension, congestive heart failure and other cardiovascular diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12701984
Experts have long thought that African Americans were less responsive to ACE inhibitors than other racial or ethnic groups. The African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK) provides the first evidence of a beneficial effect of ACE inhibition on renal function in African American patients, in addition to excellent blood pressure control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12701988
Mild chronic kidney disease often goes unnoticed until a substantial loss of renal function has occurred. Given the increasing incidence of chronic kidney disease, primary care physicians play a critical role in the early evaluation and intervention of patients at risk. This article discusses the key steps, with emphasis on patients with mild disease due to diabetes or hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12702626
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12703677
To discuss the physiologic mechanisms underlying neurocardiogenic syncope in the context of several different management strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12704478
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12708620
During myocardial ischemia, fatty acids are the principal source of energy, increasing myocardial oxygen consumption and making a decrease in coronary blood flow less well tolerated. Increasing glucose oxidation during myocardial ischemia may improve cardiac efficiency. The pFOX inhibitors have the potential to accomplish this. In 2003, I think we can look forward to learning more about this class of compounds called pFOX inhibitors. Perhaps they will provide us alternative therapies in our patients who have persistent chronic stable angina pectoris despite aggressive medical therapy and/or revascularization. It seems to methat this is an increasing problem, and it is particularly common in older patients who want to remain active, but whose chronic stable angina interferes with that lifestyle.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12708950
To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and tolerability of extended-release (ER) metoprolol succinate and its role in the management of chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12709465
Hypertensive patients are often given a calcium antagonist to reduce cardiovascular disease risk, but the benefit compared with other drug classes is controversial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12710862
Renal disease in older diabetic patients is costly in terms of morbidity, mortality and expenditure. Therefore, prevention and treatment of diabetic nephropathy has become a prominent goal in the treatment of patients with diabetes mellitus. Preventive treatment should begin no later than at the stage of microalbuminuria, and regular screening for microalbuminuria is recommended for all patients with diabetes, irrespective of age. Improved metabolic control has been demonstrated to lower urinary albumin excretion. Target glycosylated haemoglobin levels should be below 7%, or 1% above the upper limit of normal of non-diabetic subjects. The use of an intensified treatment regimen is recommended. Insulin therapy has no adverse effects on renal indexes. To preserve renal function in older diabetic patients, blood pressure should be kept at or below 130/80 mm Hg. Treatment with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists (angiotensin II receptor blockers; ARBs) is superior to other pharmacological therapy, and should be initiated as first-line treatment. Most of the calcium channel antagonists have been found to increase or to have no effect on microalbuminuria despite blood pressure reduction. Moreover, there is substantial controversy as to whether they may be associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity. Non-dihydropyridine derivatives and calcium channel antagonists, such as nitrendipine, may be nephroprotective and have favourable effects on patients outcomes. A renoprotective action of diuretics may be confined to indapamide. Although beta-adrenoreceptor blockers are effective antihypertensive agents, they may not adequately preserve kidney function in older diabetic patients. However, as add-on treatment to ACE inhibitors or ARBs, they are particularly beneficial in nephropathic patients at risk of cardiovascular disease or with arrhythmias, in whom they may prove life-saving.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12713106
The childhood glaucomas represent of variety of glaucoma subtypes that can cause serious and permanent visual damage. Early detection and treatment of infantile glaucoma is essential to preserve vision. The clinical signs and symptoms of infantile glaucoma are recognizable by nonophthalmologists but may be confused with other common clinical entities. Surgical and occasionally medical interventions can control raised intraocular pressure and thus prevent permanent glaucoma damage to the eye. Amblyopia is a common reason for permanent visual loss in this disease and needs to be treated aggressively as well.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12713682
This paper reviews the current knowledge of cardiovascular effects of the most commonly used novel antidepressants and their possible interactions with cardiovascular medications. The literature was reviewed through Medline 1980-2001. Materials were located by using terms such as SSRIs, individual names of novel antidepressants matched with terms like cardiovascular effects, cardiovascular diseases, cardiovascular risk factors, etc. Drug compendiums from 1998-2001 and some psychopharmacology texts were also used. The article focuses on the cardiovascular effects of the newer antidepressants, their use in patients with cardiovascular disease, and interactions with various commonly used cardiovascular drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714146
Acute and chronic inflammation play a central role in the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis. Corticosteroids are the gold standard anti-inflammatory agent and may have a role in treating acute myocardial infarction. However, concern exists regarding the potential for impaired wound healing and wall thinning. The MEDLINE and PreMEDLINE databases were searched for articles from 1966 through May 2002. A total of 186 articles and 16 English-language publications were identified. A meta-analysis of mortality in controlled trials was performed. Sensitivity analyses and 2 tests for publication bias were used to test the robustness of the results. Sixteen studies involving 3,793 patients were reviewed. Most studies were small (<100 patients) and revealed conflicting efficacy using surrogate outcome measures, such as infarct size. No clear association with myocardial rupture was observed. Meta-analysis of 11 controlled trials (2,646 patients) revealed a 26% decrease in mortality with corticosteroids (odds ratio 0.74, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.59 to 0.94; p = 0.015). Sensitivity analyses limited to large studies and randomized controlled trials revealed odds ratios of 0.76 (95% CI 0.53 to 1.09) and 0.95 (95% CI 0.72 to 1.26), respectively. Two tests revealed no evidence for publication bias. Thus, the review of available clinical studies demonstrated no harm and a possible mortality benefit of corticosteroids in acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714402
To compare the safety and efficacy of unoprostone, brimonidine, and dorzolamide as adjunctive therapy to timolol in patients with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714973
The current prescription patterns for essential hypertension and the efficacy, safety, tolerability and cost-effectiveness of the newer antihypertensive drugs were evaluated in Nigerian patients. The findings were compared with that of a previous study conducted in the same tertiary hospital 10 years earlier. A cross-sectional evaluation of blood pressure (BP) control in a hypertension clinic was undertaken among 150 Nigerian patients aged 61 +/- 12 years (55% females), with a duration of treatment on a particular drug class or combination of 9 +/- 3 months. The initial blood pressure was 176 +/- 20/108 +/- 11 mmHg and 22% of the patient had concurrent diabetes mellitus. Thiazide diuretics (D) alone or in combination remained the most commonly prescribed drugs in 56% of all patients. There were significant increases in the prescriptions of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) (51%), P < 0.0001, and ACE-inhibitors (ACEIs) (24%), P < 0.0001, but a slight reduction in the use of methyldopa, and fixed drug combinations (P < 0.01) compared to the previous study. The fall in systolic blood pressure on D (r = 0.65, P < 0.001) or CCB (r = 0.48, P < 0.02) was significantly correlated with the initial systolic blood pressure, but not age. More patients achieved normotension BP < 140/90 mmHg on CCB monotherapy (71%), than D monotherapy (56%). Combination therapy with ACEIs + D or methyldopa+thiazides normalized BP in 63 and 68%, respectively. Pulse pressure, a surrogate marker for cardiovascular complications and mortality in essential hypertension, was significantly reduced (P < 0.01) equally by all treatments, with 95% confidence intervals ranging from -28 to -1 mmHg. However, hypertensive-diabetic (HT-DM) patients (n = 33) exhibited no significant change in pulse pressure in response to treatment. Adverse drug reactions that occurred in 11% were impotence or postural dizziness with D, headache and pitting oedema with CCB, and dry cough with ACEI. Pharmaco-economic comparison of the drug classes revealed that for every US dollar (dollar) spent per month, the percentage of treated patients attaining normotension was 18.6 for D, 4.73 for CCB, 3.5 for ACEI + D and 13.6 for methyldopa + thiazides. A combination of ACEI + CCB or D was the preferred treatment for hypertensive-diabetic Nigerians, but only 24% attained a BP < 130/85 mmHg. These results demonstrate a shift in trend to a more rational and efficacious treatment of hypertension over a 10 year period. This may be associated, at least in part, with the intensive and continuous education of the prescribers in rational drug use and the introduction of a hospital formulary. Methyldopa is still a highly efficacious and cost-effective drug in this population. Black HT-DM Africans still constitute a subgroup who not only require more and costlier antihypertensive drugs, but whose BP control is suboptimal, and exhibit a poor therapeutic response to other risk factors (pulse pressure) that constitute a continuing risk for cardiovascular mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12715904
Congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a group of ion channel disorders of ventricular myocytes due to genetic mutations. The main symptoms of LQTS are pre-syncopal or syncopal attacks and cardiac arrest. Anti-adrenergic therapy with beta-blockers has been the mainstay of treatment. Left cardiac sympathectomy has also been used as an alternative in those in whom beta-blockers failed. ICDs are highly effective in preventing mortality and should be the first choice of therapy for those with cardiac arrest as the first symptom or those with LQT3 genotype not responding to anti-adrenergic therapy alone. Research on new therapeutic options, specifically those targeting at defective genes or mutant ion channels, may provide more effective treatment for this rare but potentially fatal electrophysiological disorder.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12716219
A wide variety of pharmacologic agents are currently used for the prevention of recurrent neurocardiogenic syncope in children and adolescents. Significant advances in the understanding of this syncopal disorder have occurred in the past decade, and the list of medications recommended has changed, reflecting the evolving understanding of the pathophysiology and development of agents with enhanced efficacy and fewer adverse effects. Clinicians have few randomized controlled trials available to guide their decisions about treating neurocardiogenic syncope, and even fewer when it comes to medications targeting the pediatric population. At the present time, beta-adrenergic receptor blockers, fludrocortisone, and also specific serotonin reuptake inhibitors and midodrine, appear to be favored treatment options. Ideally, specific therapy would be tailored to specific pathophysiologic mechanisms. Unfortunately, at present, specific treatments based on those abnormalities have not been identified.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12719441
To compare the effect of antihypertensive drugs on endothelium-dependent vasodilation in the peripheral conduit arteries of patients with essential hypertension, in a prospective, randomized, parallel group study, endothelial function was assessed in 168 hypertensive patients before and after 6-month treatment with randomly assigned nifedipine GITS (30 to 60 mg, n=28), amlodipine (5 to 10 mg, n=28), atenolol (50 to 100 mg, n=29), nebivolol (5 to 10 mg, n=28), telmisartan (80 to 160 mg, n=29), and perindopril (2 to 4 mg, n=28). If necessary, hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg) was added to each compound. We evaluated brachial artery flow-mediated, endothelium-dependent dilation (high-resolution ultrasound) compared with endothelium-independent response to glyceryl trinitrate (25 microg/s). Brachial artery diameter was measured by automatic computerized analysis. Forty healthy subjects were evaluated as a control group. Oxidative stress production was evaluated by measuring plasma malondialdehyde and plasma lipoperoxides; plasma antioxidant capacity was assessed as ferric-reducing antioxidant power. Hypertensive patients showed a significantly (P<0.01) lower flow-mediated dilation (5.2+/-1.9%) as compared with healthy control subjects (7.1+/-2.6%). Response to glyceryl trinitrate was similar in control subjects and patients. At baseline, blood pressure, diameter, flow-mediated dilation, and response to glyceryl trinitrate were similar in the different treatment groups. All treatments similarly reduced blood pressure, but only perindopril increased flow mediated dilation (from 5.1+/-2 to 6.4+/-2.4%; P<0.01) without modifying the response to glyceryl trinitrate. Perindopril but also telmisartan nifedipine and amlodipine reduced oxidative stress and increased plasma antioxidant capacity. In patients with essential hypertension, ACE inhibitors appear to be the only compounds able to improve conduit artery endothelium-dependent vasodilation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12720497
The recent Losartan Intervention For Endpoint Reduction in Hypertension (LIFE) study was conducted in patients with essential hypertension with electrocardiogram evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy. This showed that losartan compared to atenolol resulted in a significant reduction in the primary endpoint of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, as well as a greater reduction in electrocardiographically-defined left ventricular hypertrophy. Importantly, this was despite a mean blood pressure reduction which was similar in both groups. Furthermore, the atenolol arm was associated with higher incidence of newly diagnosed diabetics. The LIFE study has firmly confirmed a place for losartan (and other angiotensin receptor blockers) in the management of hypertension. Losartan has also been shown to be effective in diabetics and in patients with atrial fibrillation, as well as in left ventricular hypertrophy regression. This trial also raises the possibility that beta-blockers should perhaps not be used as first-line monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12720498
The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) is considered the largest trial of antihypertensive therapy conducted to date. It compared the cardiovascular effects of three more recently developed classes of antihypertensive agents to those of a diuretic in an attempt to identify which of these drugs should be the recommended first-line agent for the treatment of hypertension. In this report the paper is discussed with the significance and the clinical implications of the results contrasted with existing evidence in hypertension research. Additionally, further questions raised by the ALLHAT study are explored with ongoing studies, and future directions with which to answer these emerging new questions are outlined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12723015
Congestive heart failure (CHF) is characterized by an initial compensatory, but subsequently deleterious, activation of both the renin-angiotensin (RAS) and the sympathetic nervous system (SNS). Incomplete suppression of the SNS may contribute to the residual mortality during optimal ACE inhibitor therapy in CHF. Carvedilol, a mixed alpha and beta-blocker with antioxidant properties, and other pure beta-adrenoceptor blockers reduce morbidity and mortality in Caucasians with CHF. However, beta-blocker monotherapy is of poor efficacy in Blacks with essential hypertension or in the treatment of glaucoma. The efficacy of beta-blockers in the treatment of African Americans with congestive heart failure is a controversial issue with conflicting findings. The aims of the present study were to examine and compare the cardiovascular, autonomic, and clinical effects of additional alpha-1, or beta-1 blockade in ACE-inhibitor treated Black patients with moderate to severe CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12723027
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12723726
As a crucial regulator of vascular function the endothelium balances a complex range of actions. Accordingly, damage to the endothelium often precedes the development of clinically manifest vascular disease. This review surveys our current understanding of risk factors involved in causing endothelial damage and the effects of lifestyle changes and pharmacotherapy on the endothelium. Our developing understanding of the intricacies of endothelial function and the effects of risk factors may aid in optimising cardiovascular prevention as well as therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12724485
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12729241
To provide family physicians with practical ways of managing depressed patients responding insufficiently to initial antidepressant treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12729393
The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of the number and timing of a binary time-dependent covariate on the bias using the last-observation carried forward in the proportional hazards model. Under various assumptions of censoring rates, transition probabilities of the time-dependent covariate, sample size, and the log hazard-ratio for the covariate, we empirically examined the impact that the number and timing have on the bias of the estimator of the covariate. An example from the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program was used. Inference on the effect of systolic blood pressure on survival is strongly affected by the number and timing of systolic blood measurements.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12731424
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12731459
Current regimens for the eradication of Helicobacter pylori consist of a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) plus one or two antibacterial agents, such as amoxicillin (AMPC), clarithromycin (CAM) or metronidazole (MNZ). PPIs are mainly metabolized by S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylase (CYP2C19) in the liver. The polymorphism of CYP2C19 is associated with the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of PPIs. Eradication rates by PPI-based therapies are also affected by this genotype, as well as bacterial resistance to antibiotics. An individualized treatment strategy based on CYP2C19-related pharmacogenetics or pharmacogenomics and bacterial resistance is expected to increase the cure rate of the initial treatment. It is also necessary to recognize that there is a possible drug-drug interaction between some of the drugs used in this treatment regimen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12732448
Catecholamine-induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT), a rare disease that occurs in subjects without obvious organic heart disease, is characterized by episodes of syncope, seizures, or sudden death in response to physiologic or emotional stress. This report reviews evidence that a missense mutation in the CASQ2 gene is associated with autosomal-recessive CPVT.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12732798
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12735115
Asthma is common in the elderly population and the differences between younger and older asthmatics should be appreciated (Table 2). Asthma is frequently overlooked in the geriatric population. Objective measures of pulmonary function can aid in a prompt diagnosis and lead to effective treatment and improved quality of life. Because smoking is an important risk factor for asthma-like symptoms of wheezing, cough, and sputum production, asthma is frequently confused with COPD. When airflow obstruction is found, attempts to demonstrate reversibility can uncover an asthmatic component to the disease. In patients who have asthma symptoms and no airflow obstruction, methacholine testing is helpful. When a normal methacholine challenge is present, a diagnosis of asthma can be excluded and the physician can pursue other diagnostic considerations such as heart failure, chronic aspiration syndrome, pulmonary embolic disease, and carcinoma of the lung. The onset of wheezing, shortness of breath, and cough in an elderly patient is likely to cause concern. Although the adage "all that wheezes is not asthma" is true at any age, it is especially true in the elderly. Diagnosis based on objective measures is essential.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12735229
Overproduction of oxygen free radicals, which is mainly mediated by superoxide, occurs in human hypertension and a wide variety of animal models. There are several important enzymatic sources of superoxide production, including NADPH oxidase, xanthine oxidase and uncoupled nitric oxide synthase. Superoxide levels are also controlled through endogenous antioxidant systems and superoxide dismutase is the primary antioxidant in the vascular system. Strategies have therefore focused on combating hypertension and vascular disease through the inhibition of superoxide-generating enzymes, and scavenging superoxide. While results from animal studies are promising, no consensus has been reached on identifying a drug target for the reliable and effective treatment of oxidative stress in hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12735785
Essential tremor can cause significant functional disability in some patients. The arms are the most common body part affected and cause the most functional disability. The treatment of essential tremor includes medications, surgical options and other forms of therapy. Presently there is no cure for essential tremor nor are there any medications that can slow the progression of tremor. Treatment for essential tremor is recommended if the tremor causes functional disability. If the tremor is disabling only during periods of stress and anxiety, propranolol and benzodiazepines can be used during those periods when the tremor causes functional disability. The currently available medications can improve tremor in approximately 50% of the patients. If the tremor is disabling, treatment should be initiated with either primidone or propranolol. If either primidone or propranolol do not provide adequate control of the tremor, then the medications can be used in combination. If patients experience adverse effects with propranolol, occasionally other beta-adrenoceptor antagonists (such as atenolol or metoprolol) can be used. If primidone and propranolol do not provide adequate control of tremor, occasionally the use of benzodiazepines (such as clonazepam) can provide benefit. Other medications that may be helpful include gabapentin or topiramate. If a patient has disabling head or voice tremor, botulinum toxin injections into the muscles may provide relief from the tremor. Botulinum toxin in the hand muscles for hand tremor can result in bothersome hand weakness and is not widely used. There are other medications that have been tried in essential tremor and have questionable efficacy. These drugs include carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g. methazolamide), phenobarbital, calcium channel antagonists (e.g. nimodipine), isoniazid, clonidine, clozapine and mirtazapine. If the patient still has disabling tremor after medication trials, surgical options are usually considered. Surgical options include thalamotomy and deep brain stimulation of the thalamus. These surgical options provide adequate tremor control in approximately 90% of the patients. Surgical morbidity and mortality for these procedures is low. Deep brain stimulation and thalamotomy have been shown to have comparable efficacy but fewer complications have been reported with deep brain stimulation. In patients undergoing bilateral procedures deep brain stimulation of the thalamus is the procedure of choice to avoid adverse effects seen with bilateral ablative procedures. The use of medication and/or surgery can provide adequate tremor control in the majority of the patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12736284
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12737504
Fifty-one patients with migraine were divided into four groups to investigate the effects of topical betaxolol and systemic calcium channel blocker flunarizine on visual fields (VF) and intraocular pressure (IOP). The first group (Group 0) was followed with no medications, topical betaxolol (bid) was precribed to the second group (Group B), oral flunarizine (10 mg daily) was prescribed to the third group (Group F), and the last group (Group BF) was assigned for combined betaxolol and flunarizine treatment. After a mean follow-up time of 4.2 +/- 1.2 months (3-6 months), IOP measurements and VF tests were repeated. Group B and Group BF were found to be statistically different from the other groups in terms of IOP reduction and VF improvement according to mean deviation and corrected pattern standard deviation indices in the second examinations. On the other hand, Group F and Group BF differed from the other two groups considering the improvement in migrainous complaints. VF findings which are probably influenced by perfusion problems due to vasospastic mechanisms in migraineurs, improved following topical betaxolol treatment. However, systemic use of flunarizine--a calcium channel blocker--did not seem to be effective on visual fields although it had beneficial effects on migraine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12738555
To assess the effects of topical betaxolol and timolol on the visual field in Japanese open-angle glaucoma (OAG) patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12738891
Thrombolysis with alteplase is used in acute ischemic stroke within 3 hours after symptom onset in many stroke centers, but experience remains limited in Europe.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12739989
Many major complications of hepatic cirrhosis relate to the development of a characteristic hyperdynamic circulatory state in these patients, irrespective of the underlying disease aetiology. Vasodilatation of the systemic and splanchnic circulations leads to a reduced total systemic vascular resistance, increased cardiac output and intense activation of neurohumoral vasoconstrictor systems including the sympathetic nervous system, renin-angiotensin system and vasopressin. Vasoconstriction of the renal and hepatic circulations contributes to the development of renal failure and portal hypertension, respectively. Current treatments that focus on amelioration of these circulatory derangements offer much promise, however, they are often limited by side effects in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12740551
Atherosclerosis is a systemic disease that can ultimately lead to ischaemia and infarction in the heart, brain and peripheral vasculature. According to the "response to injury" hypothesis, endothelial dysfunction is the early event that allows penetration of lipids and inflammatory cells into the arterial wall, contributing to the development of the atherosclerotic lesion. Endothelial dysfunction is causally related to a variety of risk factors for atherosclerosis, including hyperlipidaemia and hypertension. Agents that restore endothelial function and NO bioavailability have beneficial anti-atherogenic activities and can improve cardiovascular outcomes; this has been observed with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, statins and certain dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blockers (CCBs). In the Prospective Randomised Evaluation of the Vascular Effects of Norvasc Trial (PREVENT), the CCB amlodipine provided significant clinical benefits compared with placebo, including a marked reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and a reduction in the progression of carotid atherosclerosis. As these beneficial effects of amlodipine have not been observed with other dihydropyridine-type CCBs, it has been proposed that this agent has distinct anti-atherosclerotic properties related to its strong lipophilicity and membrane location. Experimental support for this hypothesis has been obtained from various in vitro and in vivo models of atherosclerosis. These findings support a broader therapeutic role for third-generation dihydropyridine-type CCBs in the treatment of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12740552
Since the pioneering publications of the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program (HDFP) and the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT) in the late 1970s and early 1980s, it has become established that lowering blood pressure in high-risk patients is a highly effective form of primary prevention for stroke. Over the subsequent 25 years, over 30 large clinical trials have extended these initial observations to allow us to conclude that treatment of mild, moderate or severe hypertension, and isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly, all produce important absolute benefits. In addition, excellent specific evidence of benefit is now accumulating for certain groups of normotensive patients, including those with previous stroke, and those with established cardiovascular disease. Although the importance of vigorous antihypertensive therapy for the primary and secondary prevention of stroke is increasingly clear, a large number of unanswered questions remain. For example, while it is apparent that diuretics, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers (CCBs) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are all effective antihypertensive agents, the question remains as to which drug, or combination of drugs, is best for which patients. The results of several ongoing comparative trials of different drug regimens, including the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial (ASCOT), may elucidate this further.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12740554
Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability and dependency in western society. Despite the determined efforts of basic science and clinical investigators, neuroprotective therapies for acute stroke have yet to be realised. Stroke prevention, therefore, remains the key route for reducing morbidity and mortality. Hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia are the most important modifiable risk factors for stroke. Several recent landmark studies have shown that lipid lowering with statins can reduce the risk of ischaemic stroke, as well as coronary heart disease. In addition, clinical trials evaluating the effects of blood pressure lowering have shown that antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, calcium channel blockers (CCBs) and angiotensin II receptor antagonists can reduce stroke risk. Accumulating evidence suggests certain antihypertensive agents such as CCBs might also prevent the formation and progression of carotid atheroma, independently of their blood-pressure-lowering effects. It follows that rigorous identification and targeting of high- risk or stroke-prone individuals for blood pressure and lipid-lowering interventions should be of practical importance to all physicians involved in the management of stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12742278
We sought to evaluate the effects of carvedilol on mortality and morbidity in dialysis patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12742290
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12742294
This study sought to assess the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and beta-blockers on all-cause mortality in patients with left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction according to gender, race, and the presence of diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12745004
Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of blindness worldwide. Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is the most prevalent form of glaucoma and has a particularly devastating impact in blacks. In the black American population, POAG prevalence is estimated to be six times as high in certain age groups compared to whites. POAG is more likely to result in irreversible blindness, appears approximately 10 years earlier and progresses more rapidly in blacks than in whites. Racial differences in optic disk parameters have been reported and show that blacks have larger optic disks than whites. This finding is robust and may account for the reported differences in other optic disk parameters. The existence of racial differences in intraocular pressure remains to be demonstrated, as conflicting findings are reported in the literature. Intraocular pressure may actually be underestimated in blacks, perhaps because they have thinner corneas. The prevalence of diabetes and hypertension is higher in blacks than in whites, and although no causal relationship has been established between POAG and each of these systemic diseases, some reports suggest that they often occur together, perhaps through an indirect relationship with intraocular pressure. Compounding the problem, there is evidence that blacks are less responsive to both drug and surgical treatment for POAG. Finally, they often have reduced accessibility to treatment and are less aware of the risks of having POAG. This article provides a comprehensive review of the current knowledge pertaining to POAG in blacks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12745200
There is evidence that diuretics and beta blockers impair glucose tolerance, whereas calcium channel blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme blockers lack this metabolic effect. We compared the effect of a combination therapy with a nondihydropyridine calcium channel blocker plus an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and a beta blocker plus a diuretic on hemoglobin A(1c) (Hb A(1c)) in patients with type 2 diabetes and mild-to- moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12745204
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12745796
Women are a neglected group for cardiovascular disease. Whereas young women tend to have lower incidences of coronary artery disease, stroke and myocardial infarctions than men, the situation changes drastically at menopause, after which women are at greater risk than men. Despite this, women at all ages receive less treatment, less attention and not enough information about health risks. Most risk factors, e.g. hypertension, elevated blood lipid levels, diabetes and changes in oestrogen levels, differ between women and men. As a consequence of this, secondary prevention from coronary artery disease is likely to have different effects in women to those in men. Different kinds of antihypertensive therapy, hormone-replacement therapy and lipid-lowering treatment may be more or less suitable in women than in men. The recent development of angiotensin-receptor blockers may have beneficial effects which make them particularly effective in women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12748199
"The Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure" provides a new guideline for hypertension prevention and management. The following are the key messages(1) In persons older than 50 years, systolic blood pressure (BP) of more than 140 mm Hg is a much more important cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factor than diastolic BP; (2) The risk of CVD, beginning at 115/75 mm Hg, doubles with each increment of 20/10 mm Hg; individuals who are normotensive at 55 years of age have a 90% lifetime risk for developing hypertension; (3) Individuals with a systolic BP of 120 to 139 mm Hg or a diastolic BP of 80 to 89 mm Hg should be considered as prehypertensive and require health-promoting lifestyle modifications to prevent CVD; (4) Thiazide-type diuretics should be used in drug treatment for most patients with uncomplicated hypertension, either alone or combined with drugs from other classes. Certain high-risk conditions are compelling indications for the initial use of other antihypertensive drug classes (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin-receptor blockers, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers); (5) Most patients with hypertension will require 2 or more antihypertensive medications to achieve goal BP (<140/90 mm Hg, or <130/80 mm Hg for patients with diabetes or chronic kidney disease); (6) If BP is more than 20/10 mm Hg above goal BP, consideration should be given to initiating therapy with 2 agents, 1 of which usually should be a thiazide-type diuretic; and (7) The most effective therapy prescribed by the most careful clinician will control hypertension only if patients are motivated. Motivation improves when patients have positive experiences with and trust in the clinician. Empathy builds trust and is a potent motivator. Finally, in presenting these guidelines, the committee recognizes that the responsible physician's judgment remains paramount.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12748215
To determine whether patients with congestive heart failure on different beta adrenoreceptor blocking drugs have similar haemodynamic responses to dobutamine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12748238
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12748317
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12749165
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12751655
Glaucoma is the second most common cause of legal blindness in the United States. Open-angle glaucoma is an asymptomatic, progressive optic neuropathy characterized by enlarging optic disc cupping and visual field loss. Patients at increased risk for open-angle glaucoma include blacks older than 40 years, whites older than 65 years, and persons with a family history of glaucoma or a personal history of diabetes or severe myopia. Elevated intraocular pressure is a strong, modifiable risk factor for open-angle glaucoma, but it is not diagnostic. Some patients with glaucoma have normal intraocular pressure (i.e., normal-pressure glaucoma), and many patients with elevated intraocular pressure do not have glaucoma (i.e., glaucoma suspects). Routine measurement of intraocular pressure by primary care physicians to screen patients for glaucoma is not recommended. Open-angle glaucoma usually is discovered during an adult eye evaluation performed for other indications. Final diagnosis and treatment occur in collaboration with ophthalmologists and optometrists. Formal visual field testing (perimetry) is a mainstay of glaucoma diagnosis and management. Eye drops, commonly nonspecific beta-blocker or prostaglandin analog drops, generally are the first-line treatment to reduce intraocular pressure. Laser treatment and surgery usually are reserved for patients in whom medical treatment has failed. Without treatment, open-angle glaucoma can end in irreversible vision loss.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12751913
A systematic review of the literature was conducted to identify articles on the economics of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Articles were classified into two main categories: cost/burden-of-illness studies of type 2 diabetes and economic evaluations of type 2 diabetes interventions. This systematic review was supplemented by an overview of the findings relating to economic evaluations of associated diabetic complications. A number of conclusions emerge from this review, the most important of which is that intensive treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes appears to be relatively cost effective compared with more conservative strategies. This finding reflects the cost offsets that arise from the range and degree of complications attributable to diabetes. Primary prevention of type 2 diabetes also appears to be cost effective, particularly in high-risk groups. The evidence on screening for type 2 diabetes is less conclusive and further economic analysis is required.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12751915
Current hypertension guidelines differ in their recommendations for first-line antihypertensive therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12762972
Diabetes is a major public health problem that is approaching epidemic proportions in our society and worldwide. Cardiovascular disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in people with diabetes. Control of cardiovascular disease risk factors is achieved only in a minority of patients. Given the magnitude of the problem and the seriousness of diabetes complications, prevention appears to be a logical approach to curb the rising prevalence of the disease. Interventions such as lifestyle modifications and the use of metformin and acarbose have been shown in randomized prospective trials to prevent diabetes in high-risk patients. Other interventions are currently being examined in large prospective studies. It is likely that one or a combination of these approaches will make diabetes prevention a reality in the near future.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12764397
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12764398
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12766540
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12766755
In hypertensive patients, both echocardiographic and electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) increase the risk of sudden death, possibly in part because of LVH-induced proarrhythmic repolarization changes. Experimentally, regression of LVH normalizes ventricular electrophysiology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12767649
The Australian Intervention Randomized Control of Rate in Atrial Fibrillation Trial was a multicenter trial of atrioventricular junction ablation and pacing (AVJAP) compared with pharmacologic ventricular rate control (medication [MED]) in patients with mild to moderately symptomatic permanent atrial fibrillation (AF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12769666
In developing a drug delivery strategy, issues of absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination must be considered. The eye presents unique opportunities and challenges when it comes to the delivery of pharmaceuticals, and is most accessible to the application of topical medications. While absorption by this route is inefficient, there are few side effects. While it has been assumed that topically applied drugs penetrated into the intraocular environment through the cornea, this is currently being reassessed. More recent investigations have shown that the conjunctival route of entry plays an important role in the penetration of drugs into the anterior segment. Furthermore, topically applied drugs have been shown to have access to the sclera from the conjunctiva. As such, it is conceivable that such drugs could find their way to the posterior segment. Data suggest that the sclera is readily permeable to even large molecular weight compounds ( approximately 150 kD). The recent finding that topically applied nepafenac inhibited choroidal and retinal neovascularization by decreasing the production of VEGF, as well as our data showing that even a large molecular weight peptide like insulin can accumulate in the retina and optic nerve after topical application, supports the contention that topically applied drugs can not only reach the posterior segment, but that they can also be therapeutic. Finally, the implications of our findings that topically applied insulin also accumulates in the contralateral eye as well as in the central nervous system are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12771007
Experimental studies have demonstrated that intravenous beta-blocker administration before coronary artery occlusion significantly reduces myocardial injury. Clinical studies have shown that intracoronary (IC) propranolol administration before percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) delays myocardial ischemia. The present study tested the hypothesis that IC propranolol treatment protects ischemic myocardium from myocardial damage and reduces the incidence of myocardial infarction (MI) and short-term adverse outcomes after PCI.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12772815
This 3-month multicenter, investigator-masked, parallel-group study compared brimonidine Purite and bimatoprost (brimP/bim) with timolol gel-forming solution and latanoprost (tim/latan) in 28 patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. IOP was measured at baseline and 2 hours after morning instillation at weeks 2, 4, and 12. The primary outcome measure was the mean IOP reduction from baseline. Secondary measures were the percentage of patients in each group who achieved specific low target pressures and the incidence of adverse events. Mean IOP at baseline was 24.8 mm Hg in each group. At follow-up visits, mean reductions from baseline ranged from 8.5 to 9.0 mm Hg with brimP/bim and from 7.5 to 7.7 mm Hg with tim/latan. More patients achieved low target pressures with brimP/bim. At week 12, 69.2% of brimP/bim patients and 27.3% of tim/latan patients had IOPs of 16 mm Hg or lower (P = .024). Both regimens were well tolerated, and adverse events were infrequent. The combination of brimonidine Purite and bimatoprost was well tolerated and at least as effective as Timoptic-XE and latanoprost in reducing IOP. More patients achieved low target IOPs with brimonidine Purite and bimatoprost than with Timoptic-XE and latanoprost. A larger study is needed to confirm these results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12774001
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12774003
Nonselective beta-blockers are very effective in preventing first variceal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis. Treatment with isosorbide-5-mononitrate (IS-MN) plus propranolol achieves a greater reduction in portal pressure than propranolol alone. The present multicenter, prospective, double-blind, randomized, controlled trial evaluated whether combined drug therapy could be more effective than propranolol alone in preventing variceal bleeding. A total of 349 consecutive cirrhotic patients with gastroesophageal varices were randomized to receive propranolol + placebo (n = 174) or propranolol + IS-MN (n = 175). There were no significant differences in the 1- and 2-year actuarial probability of variceal bleeding between the 2 groups (propranolol + placebo, 8.3% and 10.6%; propranolol + IS-MN, 5% and 12.5%). The only independent predictor of variceal bleeding was a variceal size greater than 5 mm. However, among patients with varices greater than 5 mm (n = 196), there were no significant differences in the incidence of variceal bleeding between the 2 groups. Survival was also similar. Adverse effects were significantly more frequent in the propranolol + IS-MN group due to a greater incidence of headache. There were no significant differences in the incidence of new-onset or worsening ascites or in impairment of renal function. In conclusion, propranolol effectively prevents variceal bleeding. Adding IS-MN does not further decrease the low residual risk of bleeding in patients receiving propranolol. However, the long-term use of this combination drug therapy is safe and may be an alternative in clinical conditions associated with a greater risk of bleeding.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12776018
Since it was first described in 1877, paradoxical embolism has become widely accepted as an etiology of stroke and peripheral vascular thrombotic occlusion. Less common are paradoxical emboli to the coronary artery. On the basis of limited pathologic and clinical series, it appears that paradoxical coronary emboli account for 5%-10% of all paradoxical emboli. Paradoxical coronary emboli have been described in all age groups, from neonates to the elderly, reflecting a wide spectrum of cardiac structural abnormality and clinical circumstance. Strategies for management should focus on treatment of acute coronary occlusion as well as prevention of future emboli.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12780402
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of the timolol maleate/latanoprost fixed combination (TLFC) given once each evening versus brimonidine and timolol solution given twice daily as concomitant therapy in primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12782643
Platelets exert a considerable influence on human morbidity and mortality. The rationale for their study in hypertension follows the observation that the major consequences of hypertension are stroke and myocardial infarction. However, the etiology of these consequences in hypertension is, paradoxically, not hemorrhagic (as might be expected from the effects of high blood pressure), but occlusive, with thrombus being the culprit lesion. Mechanisms of platelet activation include high shear force, activation of the renin-angiotensin system, endothelial changes, and the presence of comorbidity, such as atrial fibrillation. The treatment of high blood pressure brings about a reversal of the changes seen in the cell. This could be in part due to the direct effect of the drug on the megakaryocyte and/or the platelets themselves, or it might simply be due to the reduction in blood pressure. Some drugs, such as calcium channel antagonists and angiotensin II receptor blockers, however, might have direct effects on platelet biochemistry other than reducing blood pressure. Finally, antiplatelet drugs are becoming an important part of the management of high-risk hypertensives, which aim to minimize vascular complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783070
In recent years, it has become increasingly recognised that a central feature of the disease progression associated with heart failure is the process of left ventricular remodeling. The remodeling process manifests as an increase in left ventricular volumes, leading to a rise in wall stress and a compensatory increase in myocardial mass. The left ventricle also gradually assumes a more spherical shape, resulting in functional mitral regurgitation leading to further haemodynamic overload, worsening myocardial function and an unfavourable clinical course. Accumulating clinical data support the hypothesis that the benefits in clinical outcome with ACE-inhibitors and beta-blockers may relate to modification of the remodeling process resulting in slowing of disease progression and preservation of contractile function. The general trend from a number of clinical studies indicates that whereas ACE-inhibitors seem to prevent progressive left ventricular dilatation, the third generation beta-blocker, carvedilol, may actually reverse the remodelling process by reducing left ventricular volumes and improving systolic function. Direct comparisons indicate that carvedilol has a similar safety and tolerability profile to ACE-inhibitors and thereby support the feasibility of administering this drug as first-line therapy in selected patients with mild to moderate chronic heart failure. Therefore, the decision to initiate treatment with carvedilol or an ACE-inhibitor might in future be tailored on an individual basis and followed thereafter by combination therapy at the earliest and safest opportunity. Finally, the possible development of treatment strategies addressing the cellular and molecular mechanisms responsible for the remodeling process and the recently published benefits of device therapies herald a combined, synergistic approach to the future management of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783629
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783630
Blood pressure rises rapidly upon waking and may be responsible, in part, for the increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke during the morning hours. Current formulations and dosing of antihypertensive drugs do not provide maximum coverage during this vulnerable period. This study was performed to demonstrate that propranolol CR (Innopran XL), a novel chronotherapeutic formulation of propranolol designed for nighttime dosing, has appropriate pharmacokinetics to provide maximum cardioprotective effect in the morning. Pharmacokinetics of propranolol CR and sustained-release propranolol after single and multiple doses were determined in normal male volunteers in this open-label, 2-period crossover study. The drugs were dosed in the evening and serial blood samples were taken for determination of propranolol concentration the next 24 to 72 hours. After a single 160-mg dose of propranolol CR administered at 10 pm, absorption was delayed by about 4 hours, after which plasma concentration rose steadily, reaching a peak at about 10:00 am. In contrast, after dosing with sustained release propranolol, plasma levels of propranolol began to rise almost immediately, reaching a plateau between 4:00 am and 10:00 am. During multiple dosing, steady-state trough plasma concentrations were achieved after 2 days with either drug. After the final dose, the plasma profiles of both drugs were similar to those observed in the single-dose study. Bioavailability was similar for both formulations of propranolol. Propranolol CR exhibited appropriate pharmacokinetics for a chronotherapeutic approach to the treatment of hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783633
Substance abuse with cocaine is associated with multiple cardiovascular conditions, including myocardial infarction, dissection, left ventricular hypertrophy, arrhythmias, sudden death, and cardiomyopathy. Cocaine has effects to potentiate the physiologic actions of catecholamines and has direct effects on voltage-dependent sodium ion channels related to local anesthetic properties. The effects of cocaine can be augmented with concomitant alcohol consumption. Acute myocardial ischemia caused by cocaine may be related to in situ thromboisis and/or coronary vasospasm. Treatment strategies for cocaine-induced myocardial infarction would include antiplatelet therapy, thrombolysis, and vasodilators (eg, nitrates, nifedipine). Beta-adrenergic blockers should not be used unless concomitant vasodilator therapy is given.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783634
Women are underrepresented in clinical trials. Lower doses of beta-blockers are required for Southeast Asians. ACE and ARB's are teratogenic in the second trimester. Torsades de Pointes is more common in women related to a longer QT-interval. Lower dose OCPs decrease the risk of MI, stroke and thrombosis. HRTs are not effective for CAD prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12787690
to summarize existing evidence regarding the benefits and the risks of all available interventional and medical means aimed at cardiac risk reduction in patients undergoing vascular surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12793706
Heart failure is common in the elderly population. Approximately 6 to 10 percent of the population 65 years or older have heart failure. Heart failure is the most common reason for hospitalization in elderly patients. Etiology of heart failure is often multifactorial in the elderly. The common causes of heart failure include ischemic heart disease, valvular heart disease, hypertensive heart disease, and cardiomyopathy. Exacerbation of heart failure in the elderly is often accompanied by precipitating factors which include arrhythmia, renal failure, anemia, infection, adverse effect of drugs and non-compliance with medication and/or diet. Diagnosis of heart failure may be difficult in the elderly because symptoms of heart failure are often atypical or even absent. Heart failure with preserved systolic function is common in the elderly because aging has a greater impact on diastolic function. It is important to recognize that very old patients with heart failure are underrepresented in clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12795654
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12796749
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12796754
Serial decline in electrocardiographic voltage in patients with increased left ventricular mass has been associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12797840
The current exercise prescription for the treatment of hypertension is: cardiovascular mode, for 20-60 minutes, 3-5 days per week, at 40-70% of maximum oxygen uptake (VO2(max)). Cardiovascular exercise training is the most effective mode of exercise in the prevention and treatment of hypertension. Resistance exercise is not the preferred mode of exercise treatment, but can be incorporated into an exercise regime provided the diastolic blood pressure response is within safe limits. It is inconclusive whether durations longer than 30 minutes produce significantly greater reductions in blood pressure. A frequency of three exercise sessions per week has been considered to be the minimal frequency for blood pressure reduction. Higher frequencies tended to produce greater reductions, although not significantly different. Evidence still exists that high intensity exercise (>75% VO2(max)) may not be as effective as low intensity exercise (<70% VO2(max)) in reducing elevated blood pressures. Exercise can be effective without a change in bodyweight or body fat. Bodyweight or body fat loss and anti-hypertensive medications do not have an added effect on blood pressure reduction associated with exercise. beta-blockade is not the recommended anti-hypertensive medication for effective exercise performance in non-cardiac patients. Not all hypertensive patients respond to exercise treatment. Differences in genetics and pathophysiology may be responsible for the inability of some hypertensive patients to respond to exercise. Ambulatory technology may allow advances in individualising a more effective exercise prescription for low-responders and non-responders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12800857
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12801622
The effect of xuezhikang on postprandial triglyceride (TG) level was investigated in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) after a high-fat meal (800 cal; 50 g fat). Fifty CHD patients were randomly divided into two groups to accept xuezhikang (xuezhikang group) 1200 mg/day (600 mg twice daily) or not (control group) on the base of routine therapy which included aspirin, metoprolol and fosinopril and nitrates during the whole 6 weeks following-up. Xuezhikang significantly reduced fasting serum total cholesterol (TC) (-20%), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C, -34%), TG (-32%) and apoB (-27%) levels, and raised fasting high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C, 18%) and apoA-I (13%) levels (P<0.001). The postprandial serum TG levels at 2, 4 and 6 h decreased 32, 38 and 43%, respectively, in xuezhikang group (P<0.001). The TG area under the curve over the fasting TG level (TG-AUC) significantly decreased in CHD patients accepted xuezhikang with normal (less than 1.7 mmol/l) and elevated (1.74 to 2.92 mmol/l) fasting TG levels by 45 and 50%, respectively (P<0.001). Routine therapy had no significant effect on the fasting and postprandial lipid and apolipoprotein levels. The change of TG-AUC was significantly related to the changes of fasting TG, TC, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels after the treatment, which were related to the changes of fasting apoA-I and apoB levels significantly (P<0.001). Xuezhikang was shown to be beneficial in the treatment of reflecting postprandial triglyceridemia in CHD patients with normal and mildly elevated fasting TG levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12803580
Cardiac complications are the major cause of perioperative and late mortality and morbidity in patients undergoing elective major vascular surgery. This review focuses on the pathophysiology of perioperative complications, risk assessment and risk reduction strategies, all related to cardiovascular disease. Patients without cardiac risk factors are considered to be at low risk and no additional evaluation for coronary artery disease is recommended; beta-adrenergic blockers may reduce perioperative cardiac events; patients with one or more risk factors represent an intermediate to high-risk population. beta-Adrenergic blockers should be prescribed to all patients and coronary revascularization should be reserved for patients who have a clearly defined need for revascularization independent of the need for vascular surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12804664
Migraine is a disorder in which central nervous sytem dysfunction might play a pivotal role. Electroneurophysiology seems thus particularly suited to study its pathophysiology. We have extensively reviewed evoked potential and transcranial magnetic stimulation studies performed in migraineurs in order to identify their pathophysiologic significance. Publications available to us were completed by a Medline search. Retrieved and personal data were compared with respect to methodology and interpreted according to present knowledge on cortical information processing. Results are in part contradictory which appears to be method-, patient- and disease- related. Nonetheless, both evoked potential and transcranial magnetic stimulation studies demonstrate that the cerebral cortex, and possibly subcortical structures, are dysfunctioning interictally in both migraine with and without aura. These electrophysiologic abnormalities tend to normalise just before and during an attack and some of them seem to have a clear familial and predisposing character. Besides the studies of magnetophosphenes which have yielded contrasting results, chiefly because the method is not sufficiently reliable, most recent electrophysiologic investigations of cortical activities in migraine favour deficient habituation and decreased preactivation cortical excitability as the predominant interictal dysfunctions. We propose that the former is a consequence of the latter and that it could favour both interictal cognitive disturbances as well as a cerebral metabolic disequilibrium that may play a role in migraine pathogenesis. To summarize, electrophysiologic studies demonstrate in migraine between attacks a cortical, and possibly subcortical, dysfunction of which the hallmark is deficient habituation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12804926
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a potent vasoconstrictor released during sympathetic activation that may be involved in myocardial ischaemia. We examined the effect of a Y1 receptor antagonist on haemodynamic and ischaemic responses to exercise in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12806521
The migraine-specific triptans have revolutionized the treatment of migraine and are usually the drugs of choice to treat a migraine attack in progress. Different triptans are available in different strengths and formulations including oral tablets, orally disintegrating tablets, nasal sprays and subcutaneous injections. In Europe, sumatriptan is also available as a suppository. Specific differences among the triptans exist as evidenced by different pharmacological profiles including T1/2, Tmax, Cmax, AUC, metabolism, drug-drug interaction profiles, amongst other parameters. How or whether these differences translate to clinical efficacy and tolerability differences is not well differentiated. Clinical distinctions among these agents are subtle and proper choice of triptan requires attention to the specific characteristics of each individual patient, knowledge of patient preference, accurate history of the efficacy of previous acute care medications as well as individual features of the drug being considered. Delivery systems may play an important role in the onset of action of triptans. The selection of an acute antimigraine drug for a patient depends upon the stratification of the patient's migraine attack by peak intensity, time to peak intensity, level of associated symptoms such as nausea and vomiting, time to associated symptoms, comorbid diseases, and concomitant treatments that might cause drug-drug interactions. The clinician has in his armamentarium an ever-expanding variety of medications, available in multiple formulations and dosages, with good safety and tolerability profiles. Continued clinical use will yield familiarity with the various triptans, and it should become possible for the interested physician to match individual patient needs with the specific characteristics of a triptan to optimize therapeutic benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12808481
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12808482
A relatively novel group of drugs that inhibit the funny current in the sinus node pacemaker cells, the so-called specific bradycardic agents, are likely to play a significant role in the management of a wide range of cardiovascular disorders, including the sinus tachyarrhythmias. This comprehensive review initially provides an insight into these agents, their historical background, and their mechanism of action. It then discusses the differential diagnosis of the sinus tachyarrhythmias (normal sinus tachycardia, inappropriate sinus tachycardia, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, and sinus node reentry tachycardia), elaborates on their pathophysiologic basis, and provides up-to-date evidence-based information on their optimum management. The specific bradycardic agents, by the very nature of their mode of action, may prove ideal therapies for the management of the sinus tachyarrhythmias, and this is explored at every stage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12808484
The primary goal of cardiopulmonary resuscitation is to reestablish blood flow to vital organs until spontaneous circulation is restored. Adrenergic vasopressor agents produce systemic vasoconstriction. This increases aortic diastolic pressure, and consequently, coronary and cerebral perfusion pressures. The pharmacologic responses to the adrenergic agents are mediated by a group of receptors that are classified as alpha (alpha), including alpha1 and alpha2, and beta (beta), including beta1 and beta2. Epinephrine, which has each of these adrenergic actions, has been the preferred adrenergic agent for the management of cardiac arrest for almost 40 years. Its primary efficacy is due to its alpha-adrenergic vasopressor effects. This contrasts with its beta-adrenergic actions, which are inotropic, chronotropic, and vasodilator. Accordingly, beta-adrenergic actions prompt increases in myocardial oxygen consumption, ectopic ventricular arrhythmias, and transient hypoxemia due to pulmonary arteriovenous shunting. This may account for the failure to demonstrate that epinephrine improves ultimate outcomes in human victims of cardiac arrest. Major interest has more recently been focused on selective alpha-adrenergic agonists. Both alpha1-agonists and alpha2-agonists are peripheral vasopressors. However, rapid desensitization of alpha1-adrenergic receptors occurs during cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Moreover, alpha1-adrenergic receptors are present in the myocardium, and beta1-agonists, like beta-adrenergic agonists, increase myocardial oxygen consumption. If they cross the blood-brain barrier, alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists also have centrally acting vasodilator effects. In the absence of central nervous system access, alpha2-adrenergic agonists have selective peripheral vasoconstrictor effects. Under experimental conditions of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, selective alpha2-agonists, which do not gain entrance into the brain, produce only systemic vasoconstriction. Experimentally, these selective alpha2-agonists are as effective as epinephrine for initial cardiac resuscitation and have the additional advantage of minimizing myocardial oxygen consumption during the global myocardial ischemia of cardiac arrest. Accordingly, myocardial ischemic injury during cardiopulmonary resuscitation is minimized, and postresuscitation myocardial function is preserved with improved survival.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12808486
Nebivolol, a selective beta1-lipophilic blocker, achieves blood pressure control by modulating nitric oxide release in addition to b-blockade. This dual mechanism of action could result in minimum interference with lipid metabolism compared to atenolol, a classic beta1-selective blocker. Hypertensive patients commonly exhibit lipid abnormalities and frequently require statins in combination with the anti-hypertensive therapy. We conducted this trial in order to clarify the effect on the metabolic profile of beta-blocker therapy with atenolol or nebivolol alone, or in conjunction with pravastatin. Thirty hypertensive hyperlipidemic men and women (total cholesterol >240 mg/dL [6.2 mmol/L], low-density lipoprotein cholesterol >190 mg/dL [4.9 mmol/L], triglycerides <500 mg/dL [5.6 mmol/L]) were separated in two groups. One group consisted of 15 subjects on atenolol therapy (50 mg daily), and the other group included 15 subjects on nebivolol therapy (5 mg daily). After 12 weeks of beta-blocker therapy, pravastatin (40 mg daily) was added in both groups for another 12 weeks. Atenolol significantly increased triglyceride levels by 19% (P=.05), while nebivolol showed a trend to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 8% (NS) and to decrease triglyceride levels by 5% (NS). Atenolol significantly increased lipoprotein(a) by 30% (P=.028). Fibrinogen levels were equally and not significantly decreased in both groups by 9% and 7%, respectively. Furthermore, atenolol and nebivolol decreased serum high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels by 14% (P=.05) and 15% (P=.05), respectively. On the other hand, both atenolol and nebivolol showed a trend to increase homocysteine levels (NS) by 13% and 11%, respectively. Although uric acid levels remained the same, atenolol significantly increased the fractional excretion of uric acid by 33% (P=.03). Following nebivolol administration, glucose levels remained the same, while insulin levels were reduced by 10% and the HOMA index (fasting glucose levels multiplied by fasting insulin levels and divided by 22.5) was reduced by 20% (P=.05). There were no significant differences between the two patient groups in the measured parameters after the administration of beta-blockers, except for triglycerides (P<.05) and the HOMA index (P=.05). The addition of pravastatin to all patients (n=30) decreased total cholesterol by 21% (P<.001), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 28% (P<.001), apolipoprotein-B by 22% (P<.001), apolipoprotein-E by 15% (P=.014) and lipoprotein(a) levels by 12% (P=.023). Moreover, homocysteine levels and C-reactive protein were reduced by 17% (P=.05) and 43% (P=.05), respectively. We conclude that nebivolol seems to be a more appropriate therapy in hypertensive patients with hyperlipidemia and carbohydrate intolerance. Finally, the addition of pravastatin could further correct the well-established predictors of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12809965
There is general agreement that patients who have elevated lipid levels and/or risk factors for or existing cardiovascular disease should receive aggressive cholesterol-lowering therapy. However, it is not clear whether patients are receiving the recommended treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12812405
In a given year, over 5% of persons in the United States seek medical care for headaches, most often seeing their primary care physician. The five cases here review diagnosis and treatment of migraine and other primary headaches, medication rebound headaches, and headaches in the elderly including temporal arteritis. Although headaches (along with dizziness and back pain) may be one of the least preferred diseases internists see, the increasing number of effective treatments may favorably change this opinion and result in better care for their patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12815569
Physicians are still concerned about prescribing beta-blockers in diabetic patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12815570
Although beta-blockers were well-tolerated by heart failure (HF) patients in clinical trials, tolerability of these drugs in a general population of HF patients is not well-described.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12818283
Losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, has portal hypotensive effects. This study evaluates the effect of losartan on portal pressure after 14 days and compares it with that of propranolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12820820
Posttransplantation hypertension has been identified as an independent risk factor for chronic allograft dysfunction and loss. Based on available morbidity and mortality data, posttransplantation hypertension must be identified and managed appropriately. During the past decade, calcium channel blockers have been recommended by some as the antihypertensive agents of choice in this population, because it was theorized that their vasodilatory effects would counteract the vasoconstrictive effects of the calcineurin inhibitors. With increasing data becoming available, reexamining the use of traditional antihypertensive agents, including diuretics and beta-blockers, or the newer agents, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers, may be beneficial. Transplant clinicians must choose antihypertensive agents that will provide their patients with maximum benefit, from both a renal and a cardiovascular perspective. Beta-blockers, diuretics, and ACE inhibitors have all demonstrated significant benefit on morbidity and mortality in patients with cardiovascular disease. Calcium channel blockers have been shown to possess the ability to counteract cyclosporine-induced nephrotoxicity. When compared with beta-blockers, diuretics, and ACE inhibitors, however, the relative risk of cardiovascular events is increased with calcium channel blockers. With the long-term benefits of calcium channel blockers on the kidney unknown and a negative cardiovascular profile, these agents are best reserved as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers, diuretics, and ACE inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12820824
Sudden cardiac death is an elusive process that claims a significant number of lives annually in the United States. It is often associated with increased mortality within the first year after myocardial infarction, with the highest frequency occurring among patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Therefore, increasing survival rates in patients with a history of both disorders is an important goal of therapy. Recent trials suggested that an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) in these patients may be superior to medical intervention in reducing the high mortality rate. Four major trials measured the benefits of an ICD for patients at risk for life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. We assessed whether patients in these trials received adequate drug therapy as directed by American College of Cardiology-American Heart Association guidelines. One aim was to determine if medicated patients who served as controls in the trials were fairly represented. Furthermore, the need for improved overall guideline adherence was apparent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12821221
To determine whether early statin therapy in acute myocardial infarction has any effect on ventricular late potentials which are considered as a noninvasive tool for evaluation of arrhythmogenic substrate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12821958
As Westernised societies have become more affluent, the attitudes of the population have become more risk-aware. People are now intolerant of small risks as well as the physical or mental discomforts from drug side effects. Safety and tolerability are now major forces driving the development of new medicines for the treatment of chronic illnesses and the prevention of increasingly rare events. For example, over the past decades, lower and lower treatment thresholds have been recommended in hypertension. Public perception of risk strongly influences the acceptability of lifetime treatment, especially for mild hypertension. This era has also witnessed great advances in the development of antihypertensive drugs that combine efficacy with unsurpassed tolerability. However, the philosophy of Scottish teachers of Materia medica still appears to be followed-'never be the first or the last to prescribe a new drug'. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists are as safe and as efficacious as other antihypertensive medications and better tolerated. Large trials (HOT, HOPE, UKPDS and PROGRESS) point to the need for rigorous control of blood pressure particularly in high-risk individuals. Antihypertensive drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system will probably impact significantly on achieving optimal blood pressure levels. Should it not now be accepted that high-risk patients should have ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists prescribed as first-line agents? We review the evidence for the use of ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists as antihypertensive agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12823642
Microalbuminuria and hypertension with Over the past decade, there has been considerable focus on the concept of microalbuminuria, not only because it predicts renal disease in type 1 and type 2 diabetes, but also because it relates to premature mortality in the diabetic and in the general population. More importantly, intervention at this stage is now possible with the perspective of preserving glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and ameliorating cardiovascular disease and ensuing strong end-points. INITIAL STUDIES: The concept of microalbuminuria was introduced about 20 years ago and since then there has been a multitude of studies and papers on this subject using the original definition, but not always, in the US. Before that time it was suggested, mainly from the US, that diabetic renal disease was an untreatable relentlessly progressive condition.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12824091
Chronic renal failure is characterized by a persistently abnormal glomerular filtration rate. The rate of progression varies substantially. Several morphologic features are prominent: fibrosis, loss of native renal cells, and infiltration by monocytes and/or macrophages. Mediators of the process include abnormal glomerular hemodynamics, hypoxia, proteinuria, hypertension, and several vasoactive substances (ie, cytokines and growth factors). Several predisposing host factors may also contribute to the process. Treatments to delay progression are aimed at treating the primary disease and at strictly controlling the systemic blood pressure and proteinuria. The role of antihypertensive agents, statins, and use of other maneuvers such as protein restriction and novel approaches are also discussed herein.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12826772
Diabetes mellitus is a risk factor for congestive heart failure. Diabetics with congestive heart failure should have good glycemic control, treatment of hypertension and dyslipidemia, and treatment with diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and beta blockers as well as digoxin, if the left ventricular ejection fraction is abnormal. Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease may have left ventricular failure because of a coexistent cardiac disorder or right ventricular failure from pulmonary hypertension. An acute respiratory tract infection may precipitate right ventricular failure and should be treated. Alveolar hypoxia should be corrected by improving alveolar ventilation through relieving airflow obstruction with bronchodilators and by increasing inspired oxygen concentration. Loop diuretics should be used cautiously. Beta blockers may be given to patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and left ventricular failure if bronchospasm is not present. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should be used to treat left ventricular failure. Digitalis should not be used in patients with right ventricular failure due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are contraindicated in patients with congestive heart failure. There are controversial data about the negative interaction between aspirin and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in patients with congestive heart failure. Patients with arthritis and congestive heart failure needing large doses of aspirin for pain relief may be treated instead with acetaminophen, tramadol, or Percocet if necessary for chronic severe pain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12826775
The prevalence rates of depression in congestive heart failure patients range from 24%-42%. Depression is a graded, independent risk factor for readmission to the hospital, functional decline, and mortality in patients with congestive heart failure. Physicians can assess depression by using the SIG E CAPS + mood mnemonic, or any of a number of easily administered and scored self-report inventories. Cognitive-behavior therapy is the preferred psychological treatment. Cognitive-behavior therapy emphasizes the reciprocal interactions among physiology, environmental events, thoughts, and behaviors, and how these may be altered to produce changes in mood and behavior. Pharmacologically, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are recommended, whereas the tricyclic antidepressants are not recommended for depression in congestive heart failure patients. The combination of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor with cognitive-behavior therapy is often the most effective treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12826780
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12826781
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12826782
Blood pressure increases with increasing body mass index (BMI) and BMI is linearly related to blood pressure in population studies. Obesity has been said to cause resistance to antihypertensive medications. We compared short-term and 1-year blood pressure response by BMI category and weight change with hydrochlorothiazide, atenolol, diltiazem-SR, captopril, clonidine, prazosin, or placebo in 1292 male veterans. Drug doses were titrated to achieve goal diastolic blood pressure <90 mm Hg over 4-8 weeks. Patients who achieved goal blood pressure were maintained for 1 year. BMI did not predict change in systolic, diastolic or pulse pressures during titration for any drug. At 1 year obese patients (BMI >30) were 2.5 times more likely to have diastolic blood pressure controlled by atenolol than normal weight (BMI <27) patients (p=0.01). Only prazosin patients gained weight: 1.7 lb (end-titration, p<0.0001; 1-year, p=0.02). Obesity does not appear to cause resistance to antihypertensive medications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12826791
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12831340
Almotriptan is a serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5HT)(1B/1D)-receptor agonist approved for the acute treatment of migraine. In 3500 acute migraine patients enrolled in short-term trials and 1500 patients in long-term open-label trials, almotriptan 12.5 mg was effective and well-tolerated. Almotriptan maintains a consistency of response across three attacks and patients continue to respond to almotriptan for up to 1 year. Results from two comparative studies and a meta-analysis of 53 randomised, placebo-controlled studies of oral triptans in > 24,000 patients, confirm that almotriptan 12.5 mg demonstrates comparable efficacy with sumatriptan 50 and 100 mg. The incidence of treatment-related adverse events with almotriptan is comparable to that of placebo and significantly lower than that with sumatriptan. Drug-drug interaction studies indicate that almotriptan may be coadministered with other commonly prescribed drugs without dose modification. Almotriptan can be recommended as first-line treatment for acute migraine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12832990
Diffuse atherosclerosis involving more than 1 vascular bed is a challenging problem. The natural histories of carotid and coronary atherosclerosis are clearly intertwined. The optimal strategies for treatment of patients who present with carotid artery stenoses and co-existent coronary artery disease (CAD) remain controversial. Minimally invasive screening tests for CAD are often unreliable, and patients presenting with significant extracranial carotid artery stenoses should usually be assumed to harbor some degree of CAD. Numerous studies have confirmed, however, that in contrast to peripheral artery stenoses, hemodynamically significant stenoses of the coronary arteries are not necessarily the index lesions that produce myocardial infarctions (MIs). Although there are some anecdotal reports that myocardial revascularization prior to carotid endarterectomy (CEA) improves the short- and long-term cardiac outcomes of patients after CEA, no prospective, randomized, controlled studies have proven this hypothesis. Numerous adverse cardiac events can occur in the perioperative period including congestive heart failure (CHF), arrhythmias, unstable angina pectoris and both nonfatal and fatal MIs. Of these, only MIs are truly "hard" endpoints. The incidence of MI after CEA is much lower than after other commonly performed peripheral arterial operations such as aortic or infrainguinal procedures. The perioperative nonfatal and fatal MI rates after CEA average about 1.0% and 0.4%, respectively. The Coronary Artery Revascularization Prophylaxis (CARP) study is currently ongoing in the United States as a multicentered randomized prospective controlled trial sponsored by the Department of Veterans Affairs. In this study, patients with significant CAD who are undergoing operations for peripheral arterial disease are randomized to myocardial revascularization versus best medical care; however, CEA procedures are excluded from this study because cardiac morbidity is low. Based on the low incidence of adverse cardiac events in CEA patients, it is generally prudent to treat their CAD with best medical care rather than routine prophylactic myocardial revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12834148
Movement disorders are commonly encountered in clinical practice. The diagnosis of movement disorders relies on a focused history and neurologic examination. Diagnostic steps include (1) identification of the phenomenology of the movements (eg, tremor); (2) characterization of appropriate clinical syndromes; and (3) differential diagnosis of specific disease entities. Accurate diagnosis is essential because symptomatic treatment exists for most movement disorders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12834362
When planning treatment for patients with hypertension, current guidelines emphasise the importance of risk stratification, based on blood pressure, the presence of end-organ damage and other cardiovascular risk factors. Because the beneficial effect of antihypertensive therapy seems to be linked to the degree of blood pressure reduction, guidelines recommend reducing blood pressure below 140/90mm Hg, with a lower target in patients who are young or who have diabetes mellitus (with or without nephropathy) or non-diabetic nephropathy. Blood pressure reduction can be achieved with several classes of drugs, including diuretics, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists and calcium channel antagonists. Calcium channel antagonists have been shown to reduce the risk of stroke and major cardiovascular events. However, it is still controversial whether different treatment regimens based on different drug classes can offer advantages beyond similar degrees of blood pressure control in preventing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The International Nifedipine GITS Study: Intervention as a Goal in Hypertension Treatment (INSIGHT) was a controlled clinical trial aimed at comparing the efficacy of a long-acting calcium channel antagonist, nifedipine gastrointestinal-transport-system (GITS), versus co-amilozide, a combination of the diuretics hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) and amiloride, on morbidity and mortality in high-risk hypertensive patients. Nifedipine GITS and HCTZ/amiloride were equally effective at reducing blood pressure and the risk of primary outcomes (a composite of death from any cardiovascular or cerebrovascular cause, non-fatal stroke, myocardial infarction and heart failure). Results from other studies indicate that there may be greater benefits for stroke and smaller benefits for coronary artery disease with calcium channel antagonist-based regimens than with diuretic or beta-blocker-based regimens. However, there is at present insufficient evidence to recommend a specific drug choice based on patient risk profile. Thus, the choice of antihypertensive drug(s) should be according to efficacy and tolerability. In addition to the reductions in cardiovascular risk, two substudies of INSIGHT showed that nifedipine GITS was able to prevent the progression of intima media thickness in the common carotid artery and slow the progression of coronary calcification. The clinical significance of this effect in the prevention of cardiovascular events still remains to be established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12834366
The clinical relevance and high social costs of atrial fibrillation have boosted interest in rate control as a cost-effective alternative to long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm (i.e. rhythm control). Prospective studies show that rate control (coupled with thromboembolic prophylaxis) is a valuable treatment option for all forms of atrial fibrillation. The rationale for rate control is that high ventricular rates, frequently found in atrial fibrillation, lead to haemodynamic impairment, consisting of a variable combination of loss of atrial kick, irregularity in ventricular response and inappropriately rapid ventricular rate, depending on the type of underlying heart disease. Long-term persistence of tachycardia at a high ventricular rate can lead to various degrees of ventricular dysfunction and even to tachycardiomyopathy-related heart failure. Identification of this reversible and often concealed form of left ventricular dysfunction can permit effective management by rate (or rhythm) control. Although acute rate control (to reduce ventricular rate within hours) is still often based on digoxin administration, for patients without left ventricular dysfunction, calcium channel antagonists or beta-adrenoceptor antagonists (beta-blockers) are generally more appropriate and effective. In chronic atrial fibrillation, long-term rate control (to reduce morbidity/mortality and improve quality of life) must be adapted to patients' individual characteristics to grant control during daily activities, including exercise. According to current guidelines, the clinical target of rate control should be a ventricular rate below 80-90 bpm at rest. However, in many patients, assessment of the appropriateness of different drugs should include exercise testing and 24h-Holter monitoring, for which specific guidelines are needed. In practice, rate control is considered a valid alternative to rhythm control. Recent prospective trials (e.g. the Pharmacological Intervention in Atrial Fibrillation [PIAF] and the Atrial Fibrillation Follow-up Investigation of Rhythm Management [AFFIRM] trials) have shown that in selected patients, rate control provides similar benefits, more economically, in terms of quality of life and long-term mortality. The choice of a rate control medication (digoxin, beta-blockers, calcium channel antagonists or possibly amiodarone) or a non-pharmacological approach (mainly atrioventricular node ablation coupled with pacing) must currently be based on clinical assessment, which includes assessing the presence of underlying heart disease and haemodynamic impairment. Definite guidelines are required for each different subset of patients. Rate control is particularly tricky in patients with heart failure, for whom non-pharmacological options can also be considered. The preferred pharmacological options are beta-blockers for stabilised heart failure and digoxin for unstabilised forms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12836809
Two double-masked, randomized, parallel, multicenter trials of similar design were conducted to compare the IOP-lowering efficacy of dual therapy with brimonidine 0.2% and latanoprost 0.005% with the fixed combination of timolol 0.5%/dorzolamide 2% in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. The combination of brimonidine and latanoprost produced significantly greater mean IOP reductions at each visit in both trials. In study 1, the mean reduction at peak drug effect after 6 weeks was 9.2 mm Hg (34.7%) with brimonidine and latanoprost and 6.7 mm Hg (26.1%) with timolol/dorzolamide (P=.024); respective reductions at week 12 were 9.0 mm Hg (33.9%) and 6.5 mm Hg (25.3%) (P=.044). At the month 1 visit in study 2, the mean peak IOP reduction was 10.6 mm Hg (39.0%) with dual therapy and 6.3 mm Hg (25.1%) with the fixed combination (P=.001). After 3 months, reductions were 9.1 mm Hg (33.4%) and 6.6 mm Hg (26.3%) (P=.047). In these studies, the combination of brimonidine and latanoprost provided IOP control superior to that of the fixed combination of timolol/dorzolamide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12840118
Atrial fibrillation is the most common cardiac arrhythmia managed by emergency and acute general physicians. There is increasing evidence that selected patients with acute atrial fibrillation can be safely managed in the emergency department without the need for hospital admission. Meanwhile, there is significant variation in the current emergency management of acute atrial fibrillation. This review discusses evidence based emergency management of atrial fibrillation. The principles of emergency management of acute atrial fibrillation and the subset of patients who may not need hospital admission are reviewed. Finally, the need for evidence based guidelines before emergency department based clinical pathways for the management of acute atrial fibrillation becomes routine clinical practice is highlighted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12842244
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12849655
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12851520
The aim of this study was to investigate, by using transvaginal ultrasonography, the possible effects on endometrial thickness of antihypertensive agents in asymptomatic postmenopausal women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12853188
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12853193
Beta blockers reduce mortality in patients who have chronic heart failure, systolic dysfunction, and are on background treatment with diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. We aimed to compare the effects of carvedilol and metoprolol on clinical outcome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12853194
The improvement in left-ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in response to beta blockers is heterogeneous in patients with heart failure due to ischaemic heart disease, possibly indicating variations in the myocardial substrate underlying left-ventricular dysfunction. We investigated whether improvement in LVEF was associated with the volume of hibernating myocardium (viable myocardium with contractile failure).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12853233
A new medication is needed to treat essential tremor. Preliminary evidence suggests that arotinolol may be effective in the treatment of this disorder.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12857042
The concept and clinical implication of left ventricular remodeling have been gradually extended. Cardiac remodeling plays important roles in the progression of cardiovascular diseases including myocardial infarction, valvular heart diseases, myocarditis, and dilated cardiomyopathy. In addition to cardiac myocytes, fibroblasts, extracellular matrix proteins and coronary vasculature are also involved in the remodeling process. Cardiac remodeling is associated with alterations of many mediators such as neurohumoral factors, cytokines, enzymes, ion channels, oxidative stress and mechanical stress. Although remodeling is initially an adaptive response to maintain normal cardiac function, it gradually becomes maladaptive and leads to progressive decompensation. Recent research has attempted to elucidate underlying molecular mechanisms of cardiac remodeling and to develop novel therapeutic strategies for heart failure. The modulation of remodeling process is effective for preventing the progression of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12858071
To review recent advances in acute and preventive migraine treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12858122
Arterial hypertension is a major risk factor for the clinical syndrome of angina pectoris, in which the ECG is abnormal but the coronary arteries are normal. Structural and functional abnormalities in coronary circulation as well as extravascular factors (eg, left-ventricular hypertrophy, fibrosis with diastolic dysfunction) compromise the adequate ratio of coronary blood flow to oxygen demand causing angina, dyspnea, and major cardiac events. Recent studies stress the importance to functional disturbances of coronary microvasculature leading to profound morphologic changes associated with impaired coronary conductance. In patients without epicardial coronary stenosis hypertensive microvascular disease can be qualitatively assessed by noninvasive diagnostic approaches based on new Doppler echocardiography techniques and may also be monitored by widely available stress tests. For ultimate quantitative assessment, invasive procedures are still required. Beyond guidelines to control blood pressure in hypertensive individuals, restoration of functional and structural integrity of the coronary microvasculature represents the ultimate therapeutic goal in hypertensive patients with coronary insufficiency and without angiographic evidence of atherosclerosis. Concomitant factors reducing coronary conductance such as left-ventricular hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction should be reversed in parallel. Currently, therapeutic intervention in the renin-aldosterone-angiotensin-II-system using ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and low doses of aldosterone antagonists represent the most promising strategy to achieve these goals. Using the knowledge of these recent results we should refine the overall management of our hypertensive patients with coronary insufficiency but without atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12858124
Despite clear guidelines and an array of available antihypertensive medications, patients with hypertension and coronary artery disease are often inadequately treated. New data from HOPE, LIFE, and ALLHAT underscores the importance of blood pressure reduction for patients with coronary artery disease. Despite our improved understanding of the mechanism by which the various classes of antihypertensive medications achieve their effect, it remains the case that blood pressure reduction remains more important than the medication used to achieve the reduction. For most patients with coronary artery disease, combination therapy will be required to achieve a target blood pressure of less than 140/80. When tolerated, this therapy should include a beta-blocker and ACE inhibitor, both of which are of prognostic benefit for patients with coronary artery disease. There are also attractions in choosing calcium antagonists because of their efficacy in controlling anginal symptoms (Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers if already on a beta-blocking agent and rate-limiting calcium channel blockers if beta blockers are contraindicated). Thiazide diuretics have proven themselves effective again in the ALLHAT study and are likely to be an integral part of treatment for the great majority of patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12858125
Diastolic dysfunction is a poorly understood pathophysiological entity; its importance is magnified by the increasing prevalence of diastolic heart failure. Forty-six million people in the US are experiencing heart failure and 550000 new cases are diagnosed annually. A large percentage of these patients with heart failure have a normal or nearly normal left-ventricular ejection fraction. Isolated diastolic dysfunction may be associated with an increased mortality. One of the major causes of diastolic dysfunction is hypertension. Advances in diagnosis and treatment strategies may improve the clinical outcome for patients with diastolic dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12859261
To establish the efficacy and safety of timolol maleate/dorzolamide fixed combination (TDFC) versus timolol maleate/pilocarpine fixed combination (TPFC), each given twice daily, in primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12860230
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12862505
The ever-increasing introduction of new therapeutic agents means that the potential for drug interactions is likely to escalate. Numerous different classes of drugs are currently used to treat hypertension. The angiotensin receptor blockers offer one of the newest approaches to the management of patients with high blood pressure. Compared with other classes of antihypertensive agents, the angiotensin receptor blockers appear overall to have a low potential for drug interactions, but variations within the class have been detected. Losartan and irbesartan have a greater affinity for cytochrome p450 (CYP) isoenzymes and, thus, are more likely to be implicated in drug interactions. There is pharmacokinetic evidence to suggest that such interactions could have a clinical impact. Candesartan cilexetil, valsartan and eprosartan have variable but generally modest affinity and telmisartan has no affinity for any of the CYP isoenzymes. In vitro studies and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic evaluation can provide evidence for some interactions, but only a relatively small number of drug combinations are usually studied in this way. The absence of any pharmacokinetic evidence of drug interaction, however, should not lead to complacency. Patients should be made aware of possible interactions, especially involving the concurrent use of over-the-counter products, and it may be prudent for all patients receiving antihypertensive treatment to be monitored for possible drug interactions at their regular check-ups. The physician can help by prescribing agents with a low potential for interaction, such as angiotensin receptor blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12864722
Digoxin therapy has no effect on mortality in heart failure. Digoxin may be useful for maintaining clinical stability and exercise capacity in patients with symptomatic heart failure. Digoxin appears to be of most benefit in patients with severe heart failure, cardiomegaly and a third heart sound. Digoxin should be used as a second-line drug after diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers in patients with congestive heart failure who are in sinus rhythm. Digoxin should be used as a first-line drug in patients with congestive heart failure who are in atrial fibrillation. ARRHYTHMIAS: Digoxin has a limited, but useful, role, either alone or in combination with other agents such as beta-blockers, diltiazem or verapamil, in achieving satisfactory resting ventricular rate control in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. In patients who lead a predominantly sedentary lifestyle (perhaps particularly in those who are elderly), digoxin alone may be the agent of choice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12866134
This pilot study aimed to compare right atrial pacing, intravenous amiodarone and oral beta-blockers in the prevention, time to onset, duration and effect on hospital stay of postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF) after coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) at our center.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12867118
Chronic heart failure is an increasingly common cause of premature death and poor quality of life. Community-based epidemiological studies have provided much-needed information on the demography of chronic heart failure, providing insight into its influence on public health. In most patients, chronic heart failure is accompanied by a range of concomitant disorders that both contribute to the cause of the disease and have a key role in its progression and response to treatment. Information on the most common comorbidities in chronic heart failure--ischaemic heart disease, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus--is presented for prespecified subgroups in the reports of many large-scale, multicentre trials; despite their limitations, these subanalyses provide guidance in therapeutic decision-making. Similarly, because chronic heart failure is commonly an endpoint in intervention trials of both hypertension and diabetes, such studies afford important information on the prevention of chronic heart failure in these common diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12867391
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of commercially available latanoprost 0.005% given every evening versus timolol 0.5% and dorzolamide 2% fixed combination (TDFC) given twice daily to white Greeks with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12871180
Several lines of evidence support a mutual relationship between the nervous system and the immune system. Therefore, it is not surprising that some neuropsychiatric disorders are also characterized by immune abnormalities. In patients with phobic disorders and in patients with migraine without aura some common immune abnormalities have been detected and, in particular, natural immunity deficits, exaggerated release of proinflammatory cytokines and circulating bacterial endotoxins have been found. In other neurological disease, some etiologic factors have been detected as in the case of Guillain-Barr syndrome in which molecular mimicry between Campylobacter jejuni endotoxin and GM1 ganglioside may cause an acute inflammatory polyneuropathy. On the other hand, attempts to identify an antigen have been made in patients with Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Finally, the chronic fatigue syndrome, an old illness in search for an antigen, risk factors and precipitating agents have been described but evidence for a specific antigen is still lacking.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12872859
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12873287
The relationship between the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and the progression of diabetic renal disease has been a major focus of investigation over the past 20 years. More recently, experimental and clinical studies have also suggested that the RAS may have a pathogenetic role at other sites of micro- and macrovascular injury in diabetes. Complementing major advances into the understanding of the local, as distinct from the systemic RAS, a number of large clinical trials have examined whether blockade of the RAS might provide protection from the long-term complications of diabetes, beyond that due to blood pressure reduction alone. While some controversy remains, these studies have, in general, suggested that angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition and more recently, angiotensin receptor blockade reduce the development and progression of diabetic nephropathy, cardiovascular disease and possibly retinopathy. This review will focus on recent developments in our understanding of the tissue-based RAS and its role in end-organ injury in diabetes, the results of recent clinical trials and newer strategies for the pharmacological manipulation of the RAS.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12875785
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12877761
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association class I recommendations for treating patients with heart failure (HF) and abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction are diuretics in patients with fluid retention, an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor unless contraindicated, a beta-blocker unless contraindicated, digoxin for the treatment of symptoms of HF, and withdrawal of drugs known to precipitate or aggravate HF such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, calcium channel blockers, and most antiarrhythmic drugs. Class II(a) recommendations for treating HF with abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction are spironolactone in patients with class IV symptoms, preserved renal function, and normal serum potassium; exercise training as an adjunctive approach to improve clinical status in ambulatory patients; an angiotensin receptor blocker in patients who cannot be given an ACE inhibitor because of cough, rash, altered taste sensation, or angioedema; and hydralazine plus nitrates in patients being treated with diuretics, a beta-blocker, and digoxin who cannot be given an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin receptor blocker because of hypotension or renal insufficiency. Patients with diastolic HF should be treated with cautious use of diuretics and with a beta-blocker. An ACE inhibitor should be added if HF persists or an angiotensin receptor blocker if the patient cannot tolerate an ACE inhibitor because of cough, angioedema, rash, or altered taste sensation. Isosorbide dinitrate plus hydralazine should be added if HF persists. A calcium channel blocker should be added if HF persists. Digoxin should be avoided in diastolic HF if sinus rhythm is present.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12879116
Platelets play a key role in the development of ischemic complications in the arterial circulation. Antiplatelet therapy has proven effective in the treatment and prevention of ischemic events. Numerous clinical studies have confirmed the therapeutic efficacy of aspirin to such a point that this antiplatelet agent has become the gold standard in clinical practice. Clopidogrel is a thienopyridine compound that inhibits platelet aggregation by selectively binding to adenylate cyclase-coupled ADP receptors. Results of a large, double-blind, randomized study (CAPRIE) confirm that administration of clopidogrel to patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease is more effective than aspirin in reducing the combined risk of ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction or vascular death. The present article highlights the importance of activation of platelets through ADP receptors and reviews the pharmacology and clinical studies of clopidogrel, a selective inhibitor of these mechanisms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12881589
It has long been recognized from epidemiological studies that Greenland Eskimos have substantially reduced rates of acute myocardial infarction (MI) compared with Western controls. From these epidemiological observations, the benefits of fatty fish consumption have been explored in cell culture and animal studies, as well as randomized controlled trials investigating the cardioprotective effects of omega-3 fatty acids. Dietary omega-3 fatty acids seem to stabilize the myocardium electrically, resulting in reduced susceptibility to ventricular arrhythmias, thereby reducing the risk of sudden death. These fatty acids also have potent anti-inflammatory effects, and may also be antithrombotic and anti-atherogenic. Furthermore, the recent GISSI-Prevention study of 11 324 patients showed a marked decrease in risk of sudden cardiac death as well as a reduction in all-cause mortality in the group taking a highly purified form of omega-3 fatty acids, despite the use of other secondary prevention drugs, including beta-blockers and lipid-lowering therapy. The use of omega-3 fatty acids should be considered as part of a comprehensive secondary prevention strategy post-myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12882875
There is a high frequency of heart failure (HF) accompanied by an increased mortality risk for patients with diabetes. The poor prognosis of these patients has been explained by an underlying diabetic cardiomyopathy exacerbated by hypertension and ischemic heart disease. In these patients, activation of the sympathetic nervous system results in increased myocardial utilization of fatty acids and induction of fetal gene programs, decreasing myocardial function. Activation of the renin-angiotensin system results in myocardial remodeling. It is imperative for physicians to intercede early to stop the progression of HF, yet at least half of patients with left ventricular dysfunction remain undiagnosed and untreated until advanced disease causes disability. This delay is largely because of the asymptomatic nature of early HF, which necessitates more aggressive assessment of HF risk factors and early clinical signs. Utilization of beta-blockade, ACE inhibitors, or possibly angiotensin receptor blockers is essential in preventing remodeling with its associated decline in ventricular function. beta-Blockers not only prevent, but may also reverse, cardiac remodeling. Glycemic control may also play an important role in the therapy of diabetic HF. The adverse metabolic side effects that have been associated with beta-adrenergic inhibitors in the diabetic patient may be circumvented by use of a third-generation beta-blocker. Prophylactic utilization of ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers to avoid, rather than await, the need to treat HF should be considered in high-risk diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12885747
Electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) predicts cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and regression of ECG LVH may predict improved prognosis in hypertensive patients. However, uncertainty persists as to how best to regress ECG LVH.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12888152
This was a double-blind, randomized, prospective study comparing the effects of nebivolol and atenolol on systolic diastolic left ventricular function in patients with essential hypertension. A significant difference was seen in stroke volume between these 2 drugs. The blood pressure lowering effect of atenolol was strongly related to cardiac output and heart rate reduction. The blood pressure lowering effect of nebivolol was related to a reduction in peripheral resistance and an increase in stroke volume with preservation of cardiac output. This preservation of cardiac output, together with a reduced peripheral resistance, may be potentially important in treating heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12888704
Heart failure is a disorder that predominantly affects older adults, with more than 50% of heart failure hospitalizations occurring in persons over 75 years of age. Unfortunately, most of the major heart failure clinical trials have targeted middle-aged patients with systolic heart failure, and the applicability of these studies to elderly patients, particularly those with preserved left ventricular systolic function, remains uncertain. In this paper, current data on the pharmacotherapy of heart failure in older adults are reviewed, recommended approaches to managing systolic and diastolic heart failure are outlined, and the importance of preventive measures is emphasized.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12898491
Children who have had surgical correction for congenital heart disease can present to the ED with an acute illness that could be associated with their cardiac lesion. There is no data available to summarize complications that could be associated with surgically corrected congenital heart disease. This work was undertaken to describe the common procedures used, list known complications of these procedures, and review general management principles in caring for the acutely ill child who has had heart surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12899584
Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality are reduced by treatment with the angiotensin II AT(1)-receptor antagonist losartan compared with conventional treatment with the beta-blocker atenolol in patients with hypertension and electrocardiogram-defined left ventricular hypertrophy, many of whom had known vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12902554
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12904089
Carvedilol (Dilatrend) blocks beta(1)-, beta(2)- and alpha(1)-adrenoceptors, and has antioxidant and antiproliferative effects. Carvedilol improved left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) in numerous studies. Moreover, significantly greater increases from baseline in LVEF were seen with carvedilol than with metoprolol in a double-blind, randomised study and in a meta-analysis. Carvedilol also reversed or attenuated left ventricular remodelling in patients with CHF and in those with left ventricular dysfunction after acute myocardial infarction (MI). Combined analysis of studies in the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program (patients had varying severities of CHF; n = 1094) revealed that mortality was significantly lower in carvedilol than in placebo recipients. In addition, the risk of hospitalisation for any cardiovascular cause was significantly lower with carvedilol than with placebo. Mortality was significantly lower with carvedilol than with metoprolol in patients with mild to severe CHF in the Carvedilol Or Metoprolol European Trial (COMET) [n = 3029]. The Carvedilol Prospective Randomised Cumulative Survival (COPERNICUS) trial (n = 2289) demonstrated that compared with placebo, carvedilol was associated with significant reductions in all-cause mortality and the combined endpoint of death or hospitalisation for any reason in severe CHF. All-cause mortality was reduced in patients who received carvedilol in addition to conventional therapy compared with those who received placebo plus conventional therapy in the Carvedilol Post-Infarct Survival Control in LV Dysfunction (CAPRICORN) trial (enrolling 1959 patients with left ventricular dysfunction following acute MI). Carvedilol was generally well tolerated in patients with CHF. Adverse events associated with the alpha- and beta-blocking effects of the drug occurred more commonly with carvedilol than with placebo, whereas placebo recipients were more likely to experience worsening heart failure. In conclusion, carvedilol blocks beta(1)-, beta(2)- and alpha(1)-adrenoceptors and has a unique pharmacological profile. It is thought that additional properties of carvedilol (e.g. antioxidant and antiproliferative effects) contribute to its beneficial effects in CHF. Carvedilol improves ventricular function and reduces mortality and morbidity in patients with mild to severe CHF, and should be considered a standard treatment option in this setting. Administering carvedilol in addition to conventional therapy reduces mortality and attenuates myocardial remodelling in patients with left ventricular dysfunction following acute MI. Moreover, mortality was significantly lower with carvedilol than with metoprolol in patients with mild to severe CHF, suggesting that carvedilol may be the preferred beta-blocker.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12906987
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12912795
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12914886
A subgroup analysis was performed in black patients who participated in the Metoprolol CR/XL Randomized Intervention trial in Congestive Heart Failure trial. Results suggest a beneficial effect of beta blockade and support the use of beta blockers in black patients with clinically stable heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12915830
Angiotensin receptor antagonists are effective in reducing proteinuria by an action independent of blood pressure. As a consequence, such agents retard progressive renal dysfunction in adults with chronic proteinuria. Long-term efficacy and tolerability data in children are unavailable.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12915925
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12916553
Stroke is a preventable tragedy for nearly 750,000 people each year. Primary stroke prevention measures applicable to the general public include a healthy diet containing fruits, vegetables, fish, and low fat; exercise; smoking cessation; limiting alcohol to moderate use; and perhaps avoidance of stress. Screening for hypertension, cholesterol, heart disease, and carotid artery stenosiscan lead to even more effective stroke prevention in high-risk patients. Specific antihypertensive drugs such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin-converting enzyme receptor blockers may be especially protective against stroke. Secondary stroke prevention in patients who have already had a stroke or transient ischemic attack is even more effective in preventing more serious strokes. Measures include antihypertensive and cholesterol-lowering agents, carotid endarterectomy, anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation and other cardiac sources of embolic stroke, and antiplatelet therapy. Stroke prevention depends on the application of these well-known and widely available treatments to a large number of patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12918889
Published guidelines for the management of migraine in primary care were evaluated by an international advisory board of headache specialists, to establish evidence-based principles of migraine management that could be recommended for international use. Twelve principles of migraine management were identified, covering screening, diagnosis, management and treatments: Almost all headaches are benign/primary and can be managed by all practising clinicians. Use questions/a questionnaire to assess the impact on daily living and everyday activities, for diagnostic screening and to aid management decisions. Share migraine management between the clinician and the patient. Provide individualised care for migraine and encourage patients to manage their migraine. Follow up patients, preferably with migraine calendars or diaries. Regularly re-evaluate the success of therapy using specific outcome measures and monitor the use of acute and prophylactic medications regularly. Adapt migraine management to changes that occur in the illness and its presentation over the years. Provide acute medication to all migraine patients and recommend it is taken at the appropriate time, during the attack. Provide rescue medication/symptomatic treatment for when the initial therapy fails. Offer to prescribe prophylactic medications, as well as lifestyle changes, to patients who have four or more migraine attacks per month or who are resistant to acute medications. Consider concurrent co-morbidities in the choice of appropriate prophylactic medication. Work with the patient to achieve comfort with mutually agreed upon treatment and ensure that it is practical for their lifestyle and headache presentation. Using these principles, practising clinicians can screen and diagnose their headache patients effectively and manage their migraine patients over the long-term natural history of the migraine process. In this way, the majority of migraine patients can be well treated in primary care, ensuring a structured and individualised approach to headache management, and conserving valuable healthcare resources.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12923040
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12923384
We reviewed the drug treatment of hypertension in the light of recent trials. beta-Blockers and diuretics clearly reduce mortality, strokes, and coronary heart disease (CHD) in hypertension. Recent trials assessed whether newer agents that block the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, or calcium blockers, offer any additional advantage, or have benefits in high-risk individuals with conventionally 'normal' blood pressure. The recent ALLHAT study claimed no differences in CHD or mortality when chlorthalidone, amlodipine, and lisinopril were compared. However, the decrease in blood pressure was not the same with the three agents, and a substantial proportion of patients enrolled did not have clinical disease. In contrast, the LIFE study (comparing losartan and a beta-blocker) and the ANBP-2 study [comparing angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition and a diuretic] reduced blood pressure similarly, yet demonstrated benefits in favour of angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers (ARBs) and ACE inhibitors. Other trials indicated similar advantages of ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients with diabetic nephropathy. Among high-risk patients with initial blood pressure in the 'normal' range, ACE inhibitors significantly reduce clinical events (mortality, strokes, and myocardial infarction), despite modest decreases in blood pressure, suggesting that additional mechanisms are responsible. Recent results of the Prospective Studies Collaboration show lower risk, even in the normal blood pressure range; high-risk patients will benefit further from ACE inhibitors and ARBs (and beta-blockers after myocardial infarction). Data for other blood pressure decreasing agents are unavailable in such populations. We conclude that blood pressure decreasing per se is of clinical benefit, but drugs that block the renin-angiotensin system offer additional advantages. Drug choice is best determined by the patient's clinical condition.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12923412
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12924832
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are widely used because of their safety, tolerability, and demonstrated efficacy across a broad range of clinical conditions. Medical literature supports the use of SSRIs for the treatment of many conditions outside of the indications approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. SSRIs offer a reasonable alternative to traditional therapy for generalized anxiety disorder. A side effect of SSRIs coincidentally provides therapy for premature ejaculation. SSRIs may reduce the frequency and severity of migraine headaches and are possibly effective in reducing the pain of diabetic neuropathy. When taken in combination with tricyclic antidepressants, SSRis offer more potent therapy for fibromyalgia than either agent alone. SSRIs appear to be effective in some patients with neurocardiogenic syncope that is refractory to standard therapies. Clinical experience supported by ongoing research continues to expand on the broad array of therapeutic applications for this class of medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12932617
The aim of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of sotalol in the treatment of fetal tachycardia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12933373
A number of drugs have been tested in clinical trials to decrease cardiac complications in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. To compare the results of these studies, we conducted a quantitative systematic review. Medline, Embase, and Cochrane databases were searched for randomized trials that assessed myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, 30-day cardiac mortality, and adverse effects. Data were combined using a fixed-effect model and expressed as Peto odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) and as numbers-needed-to-treat/harm (NNT/H). Twenty-one trials involving 3646 patients were included: 11 trials using beta-blockers (6 drugs; 866 patients), 6 clonidine or mivazerol (614 patients), 3 diltiazem or verapamil (121 patients), and 1 nitroglycerin (45 patients). All trials had an inactive control; there were no direct comparisons. beta-blockers decreased ischemic episodes during surgery (7.6% versus 20.2% with placebo; OR 0.32 [95% CI, 0.17-0.58]; NNT 8) and after surgery (15.2% versus 27.9% with control; OR 0.46 [95% CI, 0.26-0.81]; NNT 8). alpha(2)-agonists decreased ischemia during surgery only (19.4% versus 32.8%; OR 0.47 [95% CI, 0.33-0.68]; NNT 7). beta-blockers reduced the risk of myocardial infarction (0.9% versus 5.2%; OR 0.19 [95% CI, 0.08-0.48]; NNT 23) but only when 2 trials with high-risk patients were included. The effect of alpha(2)-agonists on myocardial infarction was not significant (6.1% versus 7.3%; OR 0.85 [95% CI, 0.62-1.14]). beta-blockers significantly decreased the risk of cardiac death from 3.9% to 0.8% (OR 0.25 [95% CI, 0.09-0.73], NNT 32). alpha(2)-agonists significantly decreased the risk of cardiac death from 2.3% to 1.1% (OR 0.50 [95% CI, 0.28-0.91], NNT 83). For calcium channel blockers and nitroglycerin, evidence of any benefit was lacking. The most common adverse effect was bradycardia, which occurred in 24.5% of patients receiving a beta adrenergic blocker versus 9.1% of controls (OR 3.76 [95% CI, 2.45-5.77], NNH 6).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12934058
Centrally acting (moxonidine) and peripherally acting (metoprolol) sympatholytic agents might have different actions upon penile circulation in hypertensive men with erectile dysfunction. A total of 11 nonsmoking, hypertensive but otherwise healthy men with erectile dysfunction were studied after 8 weeks on moxonidine monotherapy (0.4 mg per day, increased to 0.6 mg if needed) and then after 8 weeks of metoprolol monotherapy (100 mg per day, increased to 200 mg if needed) in a crossover design. At the end of each treatment phase, the subjects were asked about their subjective erectile capacity (nocturnal and coital erections), and resting and stimulated (after intracavernosal injection of a mixture of alprostadil and phentolamine) penile deep artery diameters and systolic peak velocities were measured by color Doppler ultrasonography. There were no significant differences in blood pressure after either therapy. The change from earlier antihypertensive therapy, moxonidine produced significant subjective amelioration of sexual dysfunction in 9/11 of the men (< or = 0.001), whereas 9/11 returned to impaired dysfunction after crossover to metoprolol treatment. Resting and stimulated deep penile diameters and peak systolic velocities were higher after moxonidine treatment compared with metoprolol (diameters: < or = 0.004, < or = 0.0001; velocities: < or = 0.008, < or = 0.038). The centrally acting sympatholytic agent moxonidine seems to improve erectile function both subjectively and objectively and has a better effect on penile circulation compared with the peripherally acting sympatholytic agent metoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12943483
Are lives saved or heart attacks prevented by antihypertensive therapy, as a result of blood pressure reduction alone, or because of other properties of the antihypertensive medications which are independent of blood pressure lowering? Long-acting calcium antagonists seem to be as effective as thiazide diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in preventing all-cause mortality and stroke in patients with hypertension, but are probably inferior to ACE inhibitors in preventing coronary artery disease. In patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease, calcium antagonists are generally as effective as beta-blockers in relieving angina and improving exercise time-to-onset of angina or ischaemia. Unstable angina or myocardial infarction require treatment with a beta-blocker, with an ACE inhibitor added when necessary for blood pressure control or if there is significant left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. If beta-blockers are contraindicated and if there is no LV dysfunction, a non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonist can be substituted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12943875
Patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) exhibit a decrease in maximal exercise capacity in response to a cold environment. The aim of this study was to further investigate the impact of cold exposure on submaximal exercise capacity, systemic adrenergic drive, and the effects of long-term beta-adrenergic blockade on these parameters. Thirty-three patients with CHF, with exercise limited by dyspnea and left ventricular ejection fraction of 26 +/- 4%, were randomized to receive metoprolol or carvedilol for 6 months. The observations were compared with 12 age-matched healthy volunteers. Maximal exercise performance with gas exchange analyses were assessed using a ramp protocol, and endurance capacity was measured using 2 constant-load exercise tests performed randomly at 20 degrees C and -8 degrees C. Healthy volunteers increased their submaximal exercise time by 20% (1,353 +/- 455 [20 degrees C] vs 1,635 +/- 475 seconds [-8 degrees C]; p <0.05), whereas patients with CHF exhibited a 21% decrease in exercise time (1,182 +/- 549 [20 degrees C] vs 931 +/- 524 seconds [-8 degrees C]; p <0.05) at -8 degrees C. Beta blockers increased submaximal exercise duration at 20 degrees C (+261 +/- 617 seconds; p <0.05) and -8 degrees C (+374 +/- 729 seconds; p <0.05). Norepinephrine increased to a greater extent at 4 minutes and at the time of exhaustion (at -8 degrees C) only in patients with CHF. Beta-adrenergic blockade caused no significant decrease in plasma norepinephrine levels. Patients with symptomatic CHF exhibited a significant decrease in submaximal exercise time in response to moderate cold exposure. Beta-blocker therapy with either metoprolol or carvedilol significantly increases submaximal exercise time and attenuates the impact of cold exposure on functional capacity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12944056
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12945222
It is not clear which duration of treatment is needed to achieve complete efficacy with fixed low dose antihypertensive therapy. The aim of this study was to compare blood pressure control rate in patients treated with bisoprolol 2.5 mg/HCTZ 6.25 mg, not controlled after 4 weeks, but treated at the same dosage for one more month to patients not controlled after 4 weeks, and uptitrated to bisoprolol 5 mg/HCTZ 6.25 mg for one month. The 641 patients who entered the study had a mean age of 58 +/- 12 with SBP/DBP at baseline of 165 +/- 12/96 +/- 7 mmHg. After 4 weeks, 252 (39%) where normalized (< 140/90) with SBP/DBP reductions of -27/-15 mmHg. In uncontrolled patients, 19% of those randomized to B 2.5 mg/H 6.25 mg and 33% of those treated with B 5 mg/H 6.25 mg where normalized at the end of the study (p < 0.001). Multivariate analysis indicates determinants of blood pressure normalisation after 4 weeks with B2.5 mg/HCTZ 6.25 mg as female gender, initial BP < 175/105 mmHg, previously untreated hypertension, age < 50 years. In conclusion, when the initial therapy with bisoprolol 2.5 mg/HCTZ 6.25 mg is not sufficient to control blood pressure, continuation with the same dosage 4 weeks longer increases the rate of blood pressure control. However, up-titration to bisoprolol 5 mg/6.25 mg is more efficacious to increase the number of patients with a final blood pressure < 140/90 mmHg.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12954920
Antihistamines and their drug-drug interactions are reviewed in depth. The metabolism of "classic" or sedating antihistamines is coming to light through in vivo and in vitro studies. The polymorphic CYP 2D6 metabolic enzyme appears to be potently inhibited by many of these over-the-counter medications. The history of the discontinued "second-generation" antihistamines terfenadine and astemizole is reviewed to remind the reader why the understanding of the cytochrome P450 system became increasingly important when the cardiotoxicity of these drugs became apparent. The "third-generation" nonsedating antihistamines are also listed and compared. They have been exhaustively scrutinized for drug-drug interactions and cardiotoxicity, and they appear to have no serious drug-drug interactions at recommended doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12956257
Two prospective, controlled, multicenter, double-masked studies--one lasting 6 months (n=594) and the other, 12 months (n=787)--examined the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy of travoprost in 1381 black and nonblack patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Investigated regimens were travoprost 0.004% once daily, latanoprost 0.005% once daily, and timolol 0:5% twice daily. In both studies, mean IOP was significantly lower in blacks treated with travoprost. The IOP reduction was also significantly greater in blacks after adjustments for age, sex, iris color, diagnosis, and corneal thickness. Timolol lowered mean IOP to a greater extent in nonblack patients. The significantly larger IOP reduction with travoprost compared with timolol in both racial groups was more pronounced in blacks. Travoprost also was superior to latanoprost in blacks. Mean changes from baseline generally were greater for black than for nonblack patients, although the differences did not achieve statistical significance. The response rate to travoprost was higher in blacks. The most common adverse effect was hyperemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12957754
Exercise can induce or prevent arrhythmias depending upon several factors, related to patient's clinical characteristics and to exercise modalit (type, intensit, frequency, duration). In the present paper, the author reviews the mechanisms of arrhythmias during acute and chronic exercise in heart failure, and focuses on the relationship between exercise training programs and arrhythmias in chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12958318
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12959269
1 The metabolism of metoprolol depends in part on the genetically determined activity of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme. In vitro studies have shown that nicardipine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 activity. Since the combination of metoprolol and nicardipine is likely to be used for the treatment of hypertension, we examined the interaction between these two drugs at steady-state. 2 Fourteen healthy volunteers, seven extensive and seven poor metabolisers of dextromethorphan were studied in a double-blind, randomised cross-over four-period protocol. Subjects received nicardipine 50 mg every 12 h, metoprolol 100 mg every 12 h, a combination of both drugs and placebo during 5.5 days. Steady-state pharmacokinetics of nicardipine and metoprolol were analyzed. Beta-adrenoceptor blockade was assessed as the reduction of exercise-induced tachycardia. 3 During treatment with metoprolol, alone or in combination with nicardipine, its steady-state plasma concentrations were higher in subjects of the poor metaboliser phenotype than in extensive metabolisers. Beta-adrenoceptor blockade was also more pronounced in poor metabolisers than in extensive metabolisers of dextromethorphan during treatment with metoprolol alone or in combination with nicardipine (24.0 +/- 2.4% vs 17.1 +/- 3.5% and 24.1 +/- 2.5% vs 15.4 +/- 2.7% reduction in exercise trachycardia, respectively, P < 0.01 in each case). 4 Nicardipine produced a small increase in plasma metoprolol concentration in extensive metabolisers from 35.9 +/- 16.6 to 45.8 +/- 15.4 ng ml(-1) (P < 0.02), but had no significant effect in poor metabolisers. However, nicardipine did not alter the R/S metoprolol ratio in plasma 3 h after dosing, the plasma concentration of S-(-)-metoprolol 3 h after dosing or the beta-adrenoceptor blockade produced by metoprolol in subjects of both phenotypes. The partial metabolic clearance of metoprolol to alpha-hydroxy-metoprolol was not altered significantly in extensive metabolisers. Plasma nicardipine concentration and beta-adrenoceptor blocking effects did not differ between the phenotypes and were not influenced by metoprolol. We conclude that beta-adrenoceptor blockade during repeated dosing with metoprolol is more pronounced in poor than in extensive metaboliser subjects, that nicardipine decreases a CYP2D6-independent route of metoprolol elimination but does not increase beta-adrenoceptor blockade during repeated dosing with metoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12959272
1 We have utilised a non-imaging echo-Doppler cardiac output device, using the principle of attenuated compensation volume flow (ACVF), to assess the cardiovascular effects of amlodipine and atenolol over 3 months in 24 patients with essential hypertension. 2 Both amlodipine and atenolol, at 4 and 12 weeks, similarly reduced mean arterial pressure (12 weeks amlodipine -12.6 mmHg, atenolol -14.9 mmHg; P < 0.01 for each vs baseline). 3 The heart rate fell on atenolol, both at 4 weeks (amlodipine -3 vs atenolol -12 beats min(-1); P < 0.05) and 12 weeks (-1 vs -11 beats min(-1); P < 0.05), without change on amlodipine. 4 Stroke volume initially rose on atenolol without change on amlodipine (4 weeks amlodipine -1.3 ml vs atenolol +10.1 ml; P = 0.05) but between drug effects were not different at 12 weeks. 5 The systemic vascular resistance was reduced on amlodipine (12 weeks: amlodipine -176 dyn s cm(-5): P < 0.05) without change on atenolol (atenolol -48 dyn s cm(-5): NS). 6 The cardiac stroke work was lowered on amlodipine both at 4 weeks (P < 0.01) and 12 weeks (P < 0.05) and statistically different from the unaltered atenolol values at both time points. 7 Skin nutrient flow or fingertip temperature was not altered by either treatment. 8 These results are consistent with contrasting mechanisms of action--vasodilator for amlodipine and decreased cardiac pumping for atenolol. The greater reduction in cardiac stroke work on amlodipine compared with atenolol warrants further investigation during longer-term studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12964914
The foundation of treatment for patients with hypertension is ongoing use of lifestyle measures such as physical exercise, weight reduction, and salt restriction. There should be emphasis on reduction of total cardiovascular risk, including smoking cessation and achievement of goal blood pressures. There are now five classes of first-line blood-pressure-lowering drugs - diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers and calcium antagonists. In most patients, the choice of drug will be guided by the clinical situation in the individual patient, including the presence of target organ damage, diabetes, established vascular or kidney disease, or other comorbidities. In the absence of such clinical indications, start drug therapy with a low-dose diuretic. Combination therapy will be needed in around two-thirds of patients, and a diuretic will normally form one element of most combinations, with the second or third drug coming from among the remaining four. Consider the use of fixed-dose combinations to improve adherence to therapy. Use long-acting, once-daily preparations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12967547
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12968198
Heart failure is a common medical condition affecting nearly 5 million people each year in the United States, of whom 500,000 are newly diagnosed. The impact of this disease on society and the health care system is immense. Inpatient and outpatient costs are approximately $40 billion annually, almost $500 million of which is spent on heart failure medications alone. Beyond the problem of financial costs, however, it is imperative for us as health care professionals to improve our ability to prevent disease progression, decrease morbidity and mortality, and optimize patients quality of life. The use of a broad spectrum of treatments is reviewed in the context of a patient case study. Primary data justifying the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, diuretics, digoxin, as well as beta blockers and spironolactone, is reviewed, with special reference to the stage of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12972122
A retrospective review of 115 patients who underwent cardiac surgery demonstrated a marked reduction in postoperative atrial fibrillation (8% vs 32%, p <0.05) in patients who received carvedilol versus metoprolol or atenolol immediately after surgery. A prospective study examining the possibility of carvedilol's greater efficacy in preventing postoperative atrial fibrillation appears warranted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12974970
Hypertension is an extremely common clinical problem, affecting approximately 50 million people in the USA and approximately 1 billion individuals worldwide. Approximately 1% of these patients will develop acute elevations in blood pressure at some point in their lifetime. A number of terms have been applied to severe hypertension, including hypertensive crises, emergencies, and urgencies. By definition, acute elevations in blood pressure that are associated with end-organ damage are called hypertensive crises. Immediate reduction in blood pressure is required only in patients with acute end-organ damage. This article reviews current concepts, and common misconceptions and pitfalls in the diagnosis and management of patients with acutely elevated blood pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 1345218
In a randomized double blind study 100 men (mean age 46 (22-64) years) with mild to moderate hypertension were followed every 3rd month for one year. Fifty were randomized to atenolol 50 mg and 50 to hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg+amiloride 5 mg (co-amiloride) once daily. The doses were doubled at 3 or 6 months if diastolic blood pressure (DBP) remained > or = 95 mmHg. If DBP was > or = 95 mmHg even at 6 or 9 months, patients were classified as non-responders, and nifedipine 20 mg b.i.d. was added. After one year 31/50 randomized to atenolol and 17/50 randomized to co-amiloride had responded to monotherapy (p < 0.05). Neither clinical findings nor haemodynamic measurements by Doppler at baseline could distinguish between co-amiloride responders and non-responders. Conversely, non-responders to atenolol as compared with atenolol responders had higher body weight (p = 0.02), higher systolic BP (p = 0.03), higher DBP (p = 0.009), stroke volume (p = 0.04), and cardiac output (p = 0.0002) combined with lower total systemic vascular resistance (p = 0.02). This suggests that some were apparent non-responders due to too low dosing of atenolol rather than true non-responders. Measurements of haemodynamics may be of importance in the assessment of optimal antihypertensive therapy according to baseline and follow-up haemodynamic aberrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 1345260
To investigate the usefulness of more comprehensive blood pressure measurements, made during daily life, in the diagnosis and treatment of hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 1366265
Metabolic effects of pindolol and propranolol were investigated in a randomised study of double-blind, double-dummy design in 39 Caucasians with newly detected hypertension. Each active treatment period was 6 months long. A euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp test was done to measure insulin sensitivity, and i.v. glucose tolerance was investigated with insulin determinations. Lipoprotein concentrations were quantified and lipoprotein lipase activities were determined in muscle and adipose tissue and in plasma after heparin injection. The blood pressure was significantly reduced by both regimes. The insulin sensitivity index was decreased by 34% during propranolol treatment and by 17% during pindolol treatment. The insulin concentrations in plasma were elevated at the end of the i.v. glucose tolerance test but were not high enough to compensate for the insulin resistance, so HbA1c and glucose concentrations were increased. A significant reduction of lipoprotein lipase activity in skeletal muscle during propranolol treatment probably explains the pronounced increase in serum triglyceride concentration during propranolol treatment despite lower free fatty acids and higher lipoprotein lipase activity in adipose tissue. These changes of lipoprotein lipase activity were not correlated to the changes in insulin sensitivity. In summary, the metabolic effects were significantly less pronounced with pindolol than with propranolol, which probably can be ascribed to the agonistic effect of pindolol on beta 2 adrenoceptors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 13678427
Adipocyte-derived leucine aminopeptidase (ALAP) is a recently identified member of the M1 family of zinc-metallopeptidases and is thought to play a role in blood pressure control through inactivation of angiotensin II and/or generation of bradykinin. The enzyme seems to be particularly abundant in the heart. Recently, the Arg528-encoding allele of the ALAP gene was shown to be associated with essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 13678695
The use of herbal supplements has steadily increased in the United States over the last decade. Despite the increased awareness of alternative therapies by the government and lay public, many physicians do not ask their patients about their use of these alternative medications. In addition, many physicians are unaware of the possible side effects that may occur when a patient consumes these substances. Considering a number of these supplements have been associated with adverse reactions in the perioperative period, it is important for a surgeon to understand all of the herbs a patient may be taking. The purpose of this article is to discuss the growing trend of herbal use among surgical patients and give the reader some background on the most commonly used herbs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 13678871
Half of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) have preserved left-ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), but few treatments have specifically been assessed in such patients. In previous studies of patients with CHF and low LVEF or vascular disease and preserved LVEF, inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system is beneficial. We investigated the effect of addition of an angiotensin-receptor blocker to current treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14499775
N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate has been reported to be effective for bleeding varices but is not available in the United States. We report the initial US experience with cyanoacrylate in this prospective trial and evaluate its safety, efficacy, and relative costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14500332
Most antiarrhythmic drugs are ion channel blockers, and to date, those tested in large randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials have shown no decrease in mortality outcome. This apparent lack of survival benefit may result from the significant liabilities associated with these agents that offset any long-term benefit. Despite the current success of implantable defibrillators and the future promise of gene therapy, there is still a pressing need for new antiarrhythmic drugs. An improved understanding of cardiac ion channels and novel approaches to target selection and compound screening will provide new opportunities for drug discovery in the near future. Here, we briefly review the multiple mechanisms of arrhythmia, the history of drug failures, and the possibilities that evolving technologies may provide in the search for more efficacious and safer antiarrhythmic drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14500864
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14504154
Thoracic epidural analgesia (TEA) is effective in alleviating pain after major thoracoabdominal surgery and may also reduce postoperative mortality and morbidity. This study investigated cardiovascular autonomic control in patients undergoing elective thoracic surgery and its modulation by continuous TEA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14508818
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14511900
Adverse drug reactions (ADR) are common and many are thought to have a genetic predisposition. There has been a great deal of interest in the role of P450 enzyme gene polymorphisms in the pathogenesis of adverse reactions. The major impact to date of polymorphic P450 expression has been on pre-clinical drug development. However, the direct clinical impact of P450 polymorphisms on prediction of ADRs has been limited, largely because studies have been small and retrospective, and the literature shows an abundance of contradictory data. Furthermore, the clinical- and cost-effectiveness of pre-prescription genotyping for P450 polymorphisms has not been convincingly demonstrated. Further studies that address these deficiencies are urgently needed--only then will prospective P450 genotyping become routine in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14517152
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14522567
RESOLVD study patients were randomized to candesartan (C), enalapril (E), or C+E. Patients were later randomized to metoprolol CR (M) or placebo. Examine impact of C or E (C/E), C+E, C+M/E+M, C+E+M on ventricular remodelling in heart failure (HF) over 43 weeks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14529610
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14530474
Carvedilol and metoprolol have been reported to be effective in the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure. However, to our knowledge, there have been no studies comparing the effects of the 2 drugs on cardiac function, including cardiac sympathetic nerve activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14530617
The risk of stroke or embolism in atrial fibrillation (AF) patients can be reduced by 68% by oral anticoagulation (OAC). This review is aimed to (1) summarize indications for OAC in patients with AF, (2) give an overview of the current knowledge of risk factors for bleeding complications of OAC and (3) give practical recommendations for an optimal OAC therapy in the neurological setting. Indications for OAC are increased age (>75 years), arterial hypertension, diabetes mellitus, previous thromboembolism, heart failure and, probably, coronary heart disease. Risk factors for bleeding complications are overanticoagulation with international normalized ratios (INRs) >3.0, increased age, arterial hypertension, diabetes mellitus, previous thromboembolism, polypharmacy, the early phase of OAC therapy and a lack of patients' education. Before initiation of OAC, the patient should be screened for potential bleeding sites. Careful monitoring of OAC comprises fixed appointments for the INR value determination, tracking for the patient, if he does not attend, advices about pain therapy, information about the influence of diet on the INR value and drug interaction, unscheduled INR determination in case of acute disorders and regular assessment if OAC is still indicated. Monitoring of OAC needs an effort, which has to be adequately estimated by the health care system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14557343
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14557344
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14561016
Beta-blocker therapy has a mortality benefit in patients with hypertension, heart failure and coronary artery disease, as well as during the perioperative period. These drugs have traditionally been considered contraindicated in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The objective of this study was to assess the effect of cardioselective beta-blockers on respiratory function of patients with COPD. Comprehensive searches were performed of the EMBASE, MEDLINE and CINAHL databases from 1966 to May 2001, and identified articles and related reviews were scanned. Randomised, blinded, controlled trials that studied the effects of cardioselective beta-blockers on the forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) or symptoms in patients with COPD were included in the analysis. Interventions studied were the administration of beta-blocker, given either as a single dose or for longer duration, and the use of beta2-agonist given after the study drug. Outcomes measured were the change in FEV1 from baseline and the number of patients with respiratory symptoms. Eleven studies of single-dose treatment and 8 of continued treatment were included. Cardioselective beta-blockers produced no significant change in FEV1 or respiratory symptoms compared to placebo, given as a single dose (-2.05% [95% CI, -6.05% to 1.96%]) or for longer duration (-2.55% [CI, -5.94% to 0.84]), and did not significantly affect the FEV1 treatment response to beta2-agonists. Subgroup analyses revealed no significant change in results for those participants with severe chronic airways obstruction or for those with a reversible obstructive component. In conclusion, cardioselective beta-blockers given to patients with COPD do not produce a significant reduction in airway function or increase the incidence of COPD exacerbations. Given their demonstrated benefit in conditions such as heart failure, coronary artery disease and hypertension, cardioselective beta-blockers should be considered for patients with COPD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14562566
Cardiac arrhythmias remain a major source of morbidity, mortality, and prolonged postoperative hospital stay in surgical patients. Recent studies in patients experiencing out-of-hospital cardiac arrest have expanded our knowledge in the management of cardiac arrhythmias. Future advances require additional studies focused on the unique proarrhythmic substrates in surgical patients, to provide a clear rationale for antiarrhythmic drug therapy in the perioperative period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14562585
Despite the "black box" surrounding CVS, the authors' understanding of this clinical entity has advanced substantially in the last decade as a result of an international interdisciplinary clinical and research effort. Although CVS is now recognized as a unique clinical entity, patients still undergo innumerable hospitalizations and diagnostic tests. Although controlled therapeutic studies are lacking, reasonably effective empiric approaches have been developed by trial and error using anti-migraine, anti-emetic, and anti-epileptic regimens. The ongoing investigations of migraine mechanisms through NMR spectroscopy, mitochondrial DNA mutations and cellular energetics, corticotropin-releasing factor and gastric motility, and brainstem regulation of autonomic function may lead to breakthroughs in the understanding of and new therapies for CVS in the next decade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14563505
The success of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in reducing morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure has led to investigations of other inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Although ACE inhibitors remain first-line drugs in the treatment of heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction, clinical evidence suggests that a newer class of agents--angiotensin II receptor blockers--may provide additional benefit by blocking the adverse effects of angiotensin II more completely. An improved adverse-effect profile also makes angiotensin II receptor blockers appropriate in patients who cannot tolerate ACE inhibitors. Clinical trials have demonstrated the beneficial effects of angiotensin II receptor blockers on the combined endpoints of morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure. Aldosterone antagonism with spironolactone has additive benefits in patients receiving an ACE inhibitor. The most recent treatment guidelines for heart failure recommend the use of angiotensin II receptor blockers and spironolactone in selected patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14563595
The goal of this study was to examine the effect of acute beta-blockade on dipyridamole Tc-99m sestamibi myocardial perfusion imaging (DMPI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 14563596
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14564329
The benefit of beta-blockers post-myocardial infarction (MI) was established in the late 1970s. Major advances in the treatment of MI have since occurred. However, patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) were excluded from those trials. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of beta-blockers in post-MI patients with CHF receiving contemporary management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14575221
Congestive cardiac failure (CCF) is a common problem through out the globe and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. The rapid progression of the disease due to neurohormonal activation can be blunted by use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and beta blockers (BB) with a major impact on morbidity and mortality. Besides CCF, they are also useful in asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction (LVD) and in prevention of heart failure in high risk patients without LVD. Both ACEI and BB are highly underutilised therapy in CCF and there is an urgent necessity to spread message among the medical fraternity for their enhanced use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14580043
Botulinum toxins are promising preventive treatments for patients with moderate to severe episodic and chronic migraine and chronic daily headache. The recommended indications for botulinum toxins as preventive therapy lend themselves to the following patient types: those who demonstrate a lack of improvement from preventive (prophylactic) pharmacotherapy; those who experience severe and intolerable adverse events from preventive medications; those who refuse to use daily medications; those who have contraindications to acute migraine therapy, and elderly patients with chronic migraine. Both open-label and double-blind placebo-controlled studies using fixed-site, "follow the pain." or a combination approach have demonstrated significant reduction in migraine frequency, severity, and duration, as well as decreased use of acute medications. The most prominent reductions have been noted in those with reportedly the most severe migraine headaches. Large, well-designed, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies are recommended to further clarify optimum dosage and location of injection, reduce treatment frequency and duration, and address other primary headache disorders that may benefit from this therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14583369
Ninety patients who underwent cardioversion of persistent atrial fibrillation (AF) were randomized to bisoprolol 5 to 10 mg once daily or carvedilol 12.5 to 25 mg twice daily. Using intention-to-treat analysis, 23 patients (46%) in the bisoprolol group and 17 patients (32%) in the carvedilol group relapsed into AF during the 1 year of total follow-up (p = 0.486). Patients treated with carvedilol had a 14% (hazard ratio 0.86) lower risk of relapse of AF compared with patients in the bisoprolol group, although results were statistically insignificant (p = 0.661) after controlling for patient age, gender, baseline heart rate, and left atrial diameter.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14585943
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14587131
As patients age, congestive heart failure becomes an increasingly important problem and accounts for up to 20% of hospital admissions for patients over 65 years. With technological improvements in the treatment of coronary artery disease, improved survival after myocardial infarction, and better hypertension therapy, patients are living longer, thus the need for successful management of older patients with chronic heart failure. The elderly, especially minorities, tend to be under-represented in congestive heart failure trials. This article will focus on the care of the geriatric patient with congestive heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14597461
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14601714
The incidence and prevalence of CV disease is high in the growing US elderly population. It is common for CV disease to be either the primary or secondary problem for elderly patients receiving critical care. The therapeutic options for CV problems experienced in the critical care setting range from medical management with the goal of symptom relief and comfort care to invasive therapies such as PCI, intraaortic balloon pump therapy, invasive monitoring, and cardiac surgery. Age alone is not a contraindication for any of the invasive therapies. Instead, a careful risk-benefit analysis should be performed for each individual patient, taking into consideration physiologic age, comorbid conditions, other disabilities, and an assessment of quality of life. Additionally, the goals (symptom relief, improvement of quality of life, survival benefit) of any therapy should be clearly established for individual patients. End-of-life issues, cardiovascular surgery, and the disabling of ICDs deserve special consideration in the elderly, as these are often challenging issues that will likely be more frequently encountered in critical care settings as science and technology advance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14602883
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14615493
This review addresses open questions about the role of beta-adrenergic receptors in cardiac function and failure. Cardiomyocytes express all three beta-adrenergic receptor subtypes-beta1, beta2, and, at least in some species, beta3. The beta1 subtype is the most prominent one and is mainly responsible for positive chronotropic and inotropic effects of catecholamines. The beta2 subtype also increases cardiac function, but its ability to activate nonclassical signaling pathways suggests a function distinct from the beta1 subtype. In heart failure, the sympathetic system is activated, cardiac beta-receptor number and function are decreased, and downstream mechanisms are altered. However, in spite of a wealth of data, we still do not know whether and to what extent these alterations are adaptive/protective or detrimental, or both. Clinically, beta-adrenergic antagonists represent the most important advance in heart failure therapy, but it is still debated whether they act by blocking or by resensitizing the beta-adrenergic receptor system. Newer experimental therapeutic strategies aim at the receptor desensitization machinery and at downstream signaling steps.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14626470
To review the effectiveness of strategies to improve the quality and efficiency of medication use in managed care organizations (MCOs).

Abstract for pubmed ID 14638555
Several large studies have suggested that therapy with thiazide diuretics confers a particular benefit in reducing the risk of strokes that seem to be, at least to some extent, independent of the blood pressure-lowering effect. Such a cerebroprotective effect was documented not only with monotherapy but also when diuretics were used in combination with other drugs. The cerebroprotective effect does not seem to be shared by other drug classes, such as the beta-blockers or the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, in patients without manifest cardiovascular disease. Since stroke is one of the most devastating sequelae of high blood pressure, our data strongly favor the use of low-dose diuretics either as initial therapy or in combination in all hypertensive patients at risk for cerebrovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14644719
To compare the efficacy and safety of topical bimatoprost (LUMIGAN; Allergan, Inc., Irvine, CA) once daily with that of topical combined timolol and dorzolamide (Cosopt; Merck and Co, Inc., Whitehouse Station, NJ) twice daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14644892
Several studies have shown that albuminuria is associated with increased risk for fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, independent of conventional risk factors. The partition values for urine albumin-creatinine ratio (UACR) used to identify microalbuminuria have been based on studies that predicted risk in diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14657064
Despite evidence of efficacy of antihypertensive agents in treating hypertensive patients, safety and efficacy of antihypertensive agents for coronary artery disease (CAD) have been discerned only from subgroup analyses in large trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14678921
The Joint Panel of the American Academy of Family Physicians and the American College of Physicians, in collaboration with the Johns Hopkins Evidence-based Practice Center, systematically reviewed the available evidence on the management of newly detected atrial fibrillation and developed recommendations for adult patients with first-detected atrial fibrillation. The recommendations do not apply to patients with postoperative or post-myocardial infarction atrial fibrillation, patients with class IV heart failure, patients already taking antiarrhythmic drugs, or patients with valvular disease. The target physician audience is internists and family physicians dedicated to primary care. The recommendations are as follows: RECOMMENDATION 1: Rate control with chronic anticoagulation is the recommended strategy for the majority of patients with atrial fibrillation. Rhythm control has not been shown to be superior to rate control (with chronic anticoagulation) in reducing morbidity and mortality and may be inferior in some patient subgroups to rate control. Rhythm control is appropriate when based on other special considerations, such as patient symptoms, exercise tolerance, and patient preference. Grade: 2A. RECOMMENDATION 2: Patients with atrial fibrillation should receive chronic anticoagulation with adjusted-dose warfarin, unless they are at low risk of stroke or have a specific contraindication to the use of warfarin (thrombocytopenia, recent trauma or surgery, alcoholism). Grade: 1A. RECOMMENDATION 3: For patients with atrial fibrillation, the following drugs are recommended for their demonstrated efficacy in rate control during exercise and while at rest: atenolol, metoprolol, diltiazem, and verapamil (drugs listed alphabetically by class). Digoxin is only effective for rate control at rest and therefore should only be used as a second-line agent for rate control in atrial fibrillation. Grade: 1B. RECOMMENDATION 4: For those patients who elect to undergo acute cardioversion to achieve sinus rhythm in atrial fibrillation, both direct-current cardioversion (Grade: 1C+) and pharmacological conversion (Grade: 2A) are appropriate options. RECOMMENDATION 5: Both transesophageal echocardiography with short-term prior anticoagulation followed by early acute cardioversion (in the absence of intracardiac thrombus) with postcardioversion anticoagulation versus delayed cardioversion with pre- and postanticoagulation are appropriate management strategies for those patients who elect to undergo cardioversion. Grade: 2A. RECOMMENDATION 6: Most patients converted to sinus rhythm from atrial fibrillation should not be placed on rhythm maintenance therapy since the risks outweigh the benefits. In a selected group of patients whose quality of life is compromised by atrial fibrillation, the recommended pharmacologic agents for rhythm maintenance are amiodarone, disopyramide, propafenone, and sotalol (drugs listed in alphabetical order). The choice of agent predominantly depends on specific risk of side effects based on patient characteristics. Grade: 2A.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14678922
This review summarizes the available evidence regarding the efficacy of medications used for ventricular rate control, stroke prevention, acute conversion, and maintenance of sinus rhythm, as well as the efficacy of electrical cardioversion and the use of echocardiography in patients with atrial fibrillation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7472698
To compare the management of mild diastolic hypertension (90 to 104 mm Hg) using a nonpharmacologic intervention with that using propranolol or placebo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7475056
We evaluated the effects of enalapril [angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor] in comparison with atenolol (beta-blocker) on insulin sensitivity and serum lipoprotein concentration in obese hypertensive dyslipidemic patients. Twenty-eight hypertensive [mean blood pressure (MAP) 152 +/- 3/103 +/- 1 mm Hgl], obese [mean body mass index (BMI) 30 + 1 kg/m2A], dyslipidemic [total triglycerides 2.0 +/- 0.2 mM and/or high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol 1.1 +/- 0.1 mM and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol 4.5 +/- 0.2 mM] outpatients were randomized in two groups receiving enalapril or atenolol for 12 weeks, in an investigator-blinded, parallel, comparative two-center trial. Insulin sensitivity was assessed by a modified insulin suppression test. Blood pressure (BP), insulin sensitivity, and serum lipoprotein concentrations were compared before and after each treatment and between the two treated groups. BP decreased significantly and comparably during enalapril and atenolol treatment (p < or = 0.01). The sensitivity to insulin improved by 15% (p = 0.03) in the enalapril group and worsened by 17% (p < or = 0.01) in the atenolol group. Serum lipoprotein concentrations were not modified by any treatment. The improvement in insulin sensitivity caused by enalapril treatment appears to be an advantage as compared with atenolol treatment in hypertensive obese and dyslipidemic patients, whereas the BP-lowering efficacy of the two drugs is similar. Because this effect has been reported with other ACE inhibitors, it appears to be characteristic of the entire class of ACE inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7487237
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7506322
According to a randomized double-blind cross-over design, the short-term (8 weeks, n = 12) and acute (2 h, n = 6) systemic and renal hemodynamic effects of carvedilol (25-50 mg o.d.) and metoprolol (100-200 mg o.d.) were compared in kidney allograft recipients with mild transplant dysfunction and arterial hypertension chronically treated with metoprolol. Cardiac output (Q) was measured by Doppler echography and renal blood flow (RBF) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) were measured by constant infusion techniques using [123I]iodohippurate and [51Cr]EDTA, respectively. After 8 weeks, mean blood pressure (101 +/- 3 vs. 103 +/- mm Hg) and RBF (318 +/- 14 vs. 316 +/- 14 ml/min) were comparable for the two drugs, whereas heart rate (HR), Q, and GFR (39 +/- 2 vs. 42 +/- 2 ml/min, p < 0.05) were slightly lower and the RBF/Q ratio (6.4 +/- 0.4 vs. 5.8 +/- 0.4%, p < 0.05) was higher with carvedilol than with metoprolol. During short-term treatment, a single dose of metoprolol acutely decreased HR and Q, carvedilol increased RBF, and both carvedilol and metoprolol enhanced the RBF/Q ratio and decreased renal vascular resistance (by 23 and 7%, p < 0.01 carvedilol vs. metoprolol). These data suggest that carvedilol has beneficial acute renal hemodynamic effects in hypertensive kidney allograft recipients with mild transplant dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7507638
Ventricular arrhythmias occur frequently in patients with hypertensive left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and have been associated with increased incidence of sudden death. In this study, the effect of various antihypertensive medications on ventricular arrhythmias was evaluated in 31 hypertensive patients with moderate to severe LV hypertrophy. Patients were assessed at baseline (after 3 weeks of placebo treatment) and after treatment with each of 4 monotherapies: diltiazem 120 or 240 mg/day, metoprolol 100 or 200 mg/day, enalapril 10 or 20 mg/day and hydrochlorothiazide 50 or 100 mg/day. Each drug therapy was administered for 4 weeks. The sequence of each treatment was determined at random. Echocardiographic measurements and electrocardiograms were obtained only at baseline. Biochemical measurements and 48-hour Holter monitoring were obtained at baseline and at the end of each treatment. All treatments resulted in a significant but similar decrease in blood pressure. In the group as a whole diltiazem decreased ventricular premature complexes (VPCs) by 65% (p < 0.05) and metoprolol by 52% (p = 0.07). Enalapril and hydrochlorothiazide had no effect. In 12 patients with > or = 5 VPCs/hour at baseline, diltiazem and metoprolol decreased VPCs by 66% (p < 0.05). It is concluded that in hypertensive patients with moderate to severe LV hypertrophy, both diltiazem and metoprolol significantly reduce VPCs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7509894
The acute and short-term responses to bisoprolol and to atenolol on systemic and renal hemodynamics and on ambulatory blood pressure (BP) were compared in a randomized double-blind cross-over study including 14 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. After a 4-week placebo period, the patients received either bisoprolol (10 mg once daily, o.d.) or atenolol (100 mg o.d.) for 4 weeks and were switched to the other drug after a new 4-week placebo period. Cardiac output (CO) was measured by Doppler echography, and renal blood flow (RBF) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) were measured by constant infusion techniques using [123I]iodohippurate and [51Cr]EDTA, respectively. Bisoprolol and atenolol decreased diurnal and nocturnal blood pressure (BP). Both drugs decreased heart rate (HR) and BP both acutely and after 4 weeks. During short-term treatment, CO was maintained with bisoprolol but reduced by atenolol (by 17%). RBF decreased after the first drug intake (by 9 and 12%, respectively) but returned to its baseline value after 4 weeks, so that calculated renal vascular resistance (RVR) was reduced (by 12 and 15%, respectively). Overall, GFR was not affected by treatment. Bisoprolol and atenolol are effective antihypertensive agents that preserve renal hemodynamics during short-term treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7526065
We compared the antianginal and antiischemic effect and tolerability of four different doses of felodipine extended-release (ER) tablets with placebo in patients with stable effort-induced angina pectoris treated with beta-blocker [metoprolol controlled release (CR) 100 mg once daily, o.d.]. Seventy-five patients were enrolled in the study. At the end of a 2-week single-blind period, all patients performed two exercise tests. If total exercise time did not vary by > 15% between the two tests and both tests were limited by anginal discomfort and concomitant ST depression of at least 1 mm, the patients were randomized to double-blind treatment (66 patients). Each patient received three of the following treatments: felodipine 2.5, 5, 10, or 20 mg, or placebo. The treatments were given o.d. in a cross-over, balanced incomplete block design with three of 3-week treatment periods. Exercise tests were performed 12 and 24 h after dose intake at the end of each treatment period. Fifty-nine patients completed the study. Twelve hours after dose administration, 10 and 20 mg felodipine increased time to onset of anginal pain by 60 and 63 s on the average, respectively, as compared with placebo (p = 0.001). Time to 1-mm ST depression was prolonged by 29 s after 10 mg (p = 0.14) and by 30 s after 20 mg (p = 0.13) felodipine. Time to end of exercise was increased by 28 s (p = 0.07) and 15 s (p > 0.20), respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7527328
Lacidipine is an orally administered calcium channel blocker of the dihydropyridine class, which shows selectivity for vascular smooth muscle over cardiac tissue and has a long duration of action. In studies using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, lacidipine 2 to 8mg administered once daily in the morning reduced blood pressure over 24 hours, with the reductions being greater during the day than at night in some studies. 77 to 87% of patients with mild to moderate hypertension had their blood pressure controlled by treatment with lacidipine 2 to 8 mg/day for 1 to 4 months in dose-finding studies. When administered once daily, lacidipine 4 to 6 mg was equivalent in antihypertensive efficacy to hydrochlorothiazide 25 to 50 mg/day, atenolol 50 to 100 mg/day, and the prototype calcium channel blocker nifedipine 20 to 40 mg twice daily (sustained-release formulation). The adverse effects of lacidipine are those common to other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, and include headache, flushing, ankle oedema, dizziness and palpitations. The long term effects of lacidipine on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and possible additional clinical benefits in terms of its antiatherosclerotic effects, are under investigation; the outcome of these studies will be important in defining the future role of this agent in the treatment of hypertension. Thus, available evidence suggests lacidipine provides a further alternative to the dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers currently available for the treatment of essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7528129
beta-Blockers have been in clinical use for 30 years, and have an accepted role in (among others) the treatment of high blood pressure, the secondary prevention of myocardial infarction and the treatment of arrhythmias. Their place in the treatment of heart failure is currently under investigation. The drugs available in the 1970s and early 1980s were subjected to intense investigation. A new generation of beta-blockers, including some such as carvedilol and bucindolol, with vasodilating properties, is now appearing. As yet these later agents have not been the subject of large clinical trials. Clinical practice involves the treatment of individual patients with defined dosages of particular drugs. It is, therefore, not acceptable to base practice on theories derived from the clinical pharmacology of a particular drug, on the results of small trials or on a meta-analysis of results from a number of trials that were individually inadequate. Clinical practice must follow the results of large-scale trials in defined populations. The major trials in hypertension, myocardial infarction, arrhythmias and heart failure provide the best evidence for the use of individual beta-blockers in each of these clinical situations. In patients with high blood pressure, beta-blockers do not seem to have any particular advantage over other hypotensive agents. In myocardial infarction, relatively late use of a beta-blocker undoubtedly reduces fatality, though the value of early treatment is less clear. beta-Blockers are not powerful antiarrhythmics, but they do appear to prevent sudden death. Their possible role in heart failure is perhaps the most interesting current field of beta-blocker research. There are very few comparative studies of beta-blockers, and it is difficult to make precise recommendations. None of the new generation of beta-blockers has yet been used in a trial that is large enough trial for any of them to be accepted for routine use in preference to older drugs. The use of individual beta-blockers, as with any drug, should follow the results of clinical trials. Propranolol and atenolol have been studied most intensely in hypertension. For secondary prevention of myocardial infarction, the evidence is best for timolol. Sotalol is probably the best antiarrhythmic among the beta-blockers. Whether any individual beta-blocker is best for heart failure remains to be seen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7532352
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7539822
To review the prognosis and management of ventricular arrhythmias (VA) in persons with and without heart disease with emphasis on older adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7545768
The article has summarized the studies and ongoing trials looking at the significance and treatment of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. In most instances, the presence of these arrhythmias is associated with an increased risk of future arrhythmic events. Electrophysiologic studies are helpful in risk stratification in patients with coronary artery disease but can be misleading in the setting of dilated cardiomyopathy and often produce nonspecific results in patients with HCM. The need for an invasive electrophysiologic study is crucial in the diagnosis of certain ventricular arrhythmias that are amenable to cure with radiofrequency catheter ablation, such as idiopathic ventricular tachycardia and BBR-VT. The correct approach for patients with SVT not amenable to catheter ablation remains to be determined. In deciding whether to use a device or drug therapy, however, one should take into consideration the degree of left ventricular dysfunction and the overall health status of the patient. For example, device implantation clearly reduces sudden death in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction but may not change total mortality because these same patients may die of congestive heart failure. Device therapy might be more cost-effective for patients with less severe depression of left ventricular function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7546754
To compare the control of hemodynamic response to surgical stimulus of desflurane to that of isoflurane.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7546992
To evaluate whether xamoterol, a partial agonist, would improve exercise time more than metoprolol in patients with mild to moderate heart failure after a myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7547016
To evaluate whether prophylactic treatment with metoprolol for two years after coronary artery bypass grafting improves working capacity and reduces the occurrence of myocardial ischaemia in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7549345
In a 12-week double-masked trial we compared the ocular hypotensive effect of 0.25% timolol in Gelrite administered once daily (TG) to that of 0.25% timolol solution administered twice daily (TS). A second objective was to compare the tolerability and the safety of these treatments. Timolol in Gelrite is a new topical formulation of timolol in an anionic heteropolysaccharide gellan gum. A total of 156 patients entered the study after an appropriate wash-out. The medication schedule included one drop of test drug in each eye at 9 a.m. (active drug for both groups) and 9 p.m. (placebo for the TG group, active drug for the TS group). At trough, the mean decrease from baseline intraocular pressure (after appropriate wash-out) ranged from 5.7 to 6.3 mmHg for the TG group and from 5.9 to 6.2 mmHg for the TS group. The difference between the treatment group means ranged from -0.4 to 0.4 mmHg. At peak, the mean decrease from baseline IOP ranged from 5.3 to 6.2 mmHg for TG group and from 5.1 to 6.1 mmHg for the TS group. The difference between the treatment group means ranged from -0.7 to 0.4 mmHg. The results of this study support the hypothesis of a comparable hypotensive effect at peak and trough of 0.25% timolol in Gelrite q.d. to 0.25% timolol solution b.i.d. Furthermore, timolol in Gelrite has an acceptable tolerability profile. The incidence of blurred vision was higher in the Gelrite group, but this different was not statistically significant. The incidence of foreign body sensation was significantly higher in the Gelrite group (P < 0.022).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7549854
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7551972
Drug therapy for acute variceal bleeding should be viewed as an adjunct to emergency sclerotherapy. Its role in preventing very early rebleeding (within days) following sclerotherapy needs to be established. The best candidates for such a role are somatostatin and octreotide, but glypressin and vasopressin and nitroglycerin combinations have therapeutic effects in the short-term. Propranolol is the drug for long-term prevention of rebleeding and prevention of the first variceal bleed. For primary prophylaxis it significantly reduces the rate of bleeding, and there is a trend towards reducing mortality. It should be used in cirrhotic patients with large varices. For secondary prophylaxis, propranolol significantly reduces rebleeding but does not improve survival. The reduction in rebleeding is similar to long-term sclerotherapy when compared in randomized studies. There is no value in adding beta-blockers to sclerotherapy compared with sclerotherapy alone, but few studies have evaluated the effects after the eradication of varices. beta-Blockers can be used as the first-line therapy to prevent variceal rebleeding. They also have been shown to reduce the frequency of rebleeding from congestive gastropathy. Many patients do not have a portal pressure reduction with propranolol. The addition of isosorbide mononitrate converts many nonresponders to responders. Current clinical trials are evaluating if therapeutic efficacy is improved by these drug combinations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7553993
The purpose of this study was to compare two anaesthetic protocols for haemodynamic instability (heart rate (HR) or mean arterial pressure (MAP) < 80 or > 120% of ward baseline values) measured at one-minute intervals during carotid endarterectomy (CEA). One group received propofol/alfentanil (Group Prop; n = 14) and the other isoflurane/alfentanil (Group Iso; n = 13). Periods of haemodynamic instability were correlated to episodes of myocardial ischaemia as assessed by Holter monitoring (begun the evening before surgery and ceasing the morning of the first postoperative day). In Group Prop, anaesthesia was induced with alfentanil 30 micrograms.kg-1 i.v., propofol up to 1.5 mg.kg-1 and vecuronium 0.15 mg.kg-1, and maintained with infusions of propofol at 3-12 mg.kg-1.hr-1 and alfentanil at 30 micrograms.kg-1.hr-1. In Group Iso, anaesthesia was induced with alfentanil and vecuronium as above, thiopentone up to 4 mg.kg-1 and maintained with isoflurane and alfentanil infusion. Phenylephrine was infused to support MAP at 110 +/- 10% of ward values during cross-clamp of the internal carotid artery (ICA) in both groups. Emergence hypertension and/or tachycardia was treated with labetalol, diazoxide or propranolol. Myocardial ischaemia was defined as ST-segment depression of > or = 1 mm (60 msec past the J-point) persisting for > or = one minute. For the entire anaesthetic course (induction to post-emergence), there was no difference between groups for either duration or magnitude outside the < 80 or > 120% range for HR or MAP. However, when the period of emergence from anaesthesia (reversal of neuromuscular blockade to post-extubation) was assessed, more patients were hypertensive (P = 0.004) and required vasodilator therapy in Group Iso (10/13 vs 5/14; P = 0.038 Fisher's Exact Test). The mean dose of labetalol was greater in Group Iso (P = 0.035). No patient demonstrated myocardial ischaemia during ICA cross-clamp. On emergence, 6/13 patients in Group Iso demonstrated myocardial ischaemia compared with 1/14 in Group Prop (P = 0.029). Therefore, supporting the blood pressure with phenylephrine, during the period of ICA cross-clamping, appears to be safe as we did not observe any myocardial ischaemia at this time. During emergence from anaesthesia, haemodynamic instability was associated with myocardial ischaemia. Under these specific experimental conditions, with emergence, hypertension and myocardial ischaemia were more prevalent with more frequent pharmacological interventions in patients receiving isoflurane.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7555159
A double-blind, placebo-controlled study using anistreplase was performed in 159 patients with unstable angina. All patients had a history of unstable angina combined with typical ECG changes and without evidence of a previous, recent, or ongoing myocardial infarction. The purpose of the present study was to analyze the relationship between the patency of the culprit artery and the behavior of the ischemia-related regional left ventricular (LV) wall motion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7557093
Hepatic vascular resistance is influenced by alpha-adrenergic tone. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of continuous blockade of alpha-adrenoceptors with prazosin on hemodynamics, liver function, and renal function and whether the association of propranolol or furosemide enhances the portal pressure lowering effect of prazosin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7562888
With 24 h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), the trough-to-peak (T/P) ratios (corrected for placebo) of atenolol 100 mg, cilazapril 2.5 mg, enalapril 20 mg and nifedipine-GITS 30 mg administered once daily for 4 weeks were determined in four groups of hypertensive patients. T/P ratios were calculated by three different methods: directly from the curves that averaged all individual 24 h profiles (A); averaging all individual T/P ratios after ABPM data were averaged for each patient over either 1 h intervals (B) or 3 h intervals (C). Methods B and C produced different values of T/P which, for each drug, were significantly higher with method C. With method A, nifedipine appeared to have the higher T/P. With methods B and C (which in contrast to method A, permitted statistical comparisons), differences between nifedipine and the other drugs were not significant. Meanwhile, method B appears to adhere most closely to FDA guidelines by taking more into account the interindividual variability of BP profile. Thus, we suggest that precise guidelines for measuring T/P on the basis of ABPM are needed, whereas for the comparison between drugs, both the mean value of the T/P and its variance must be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7572650
We investigated whether analysis of heart rate (HR) variability may be used to predict the efficacy of drug treatment of myocardial ischemia. In a double-blind, crossover study, 28 patients with stable angina pectoris, proven coronary artery disease, and myocardial ischemia during Holter monitoring received metoprolol controlled-release 200 mg once daily and diltiazem 60 mg 4 times daily. After a placebo run-in phase and after each treatment period, 72-hour Holter recordings were obtained for HR variability and ST-segment analysis. At baseline, the total duration of myocardial ischemia was 11.4 +/- 13.9 minutes (mean +/- SD per 24 hours), and the total number of episodes was 2.2 +/- 2.3. Metoprolol significantly reduced the total duration of ischemia by -8.7 minutes (95% CI -14.5 to -2.8) and the total number of episodes by -1.9 (-2.9 to -0.8) in patients with a low SD of normal-to-normal intervals at baseline (SDNN), using the median value of 50 ms as a cut-off value. In contrast, significant treatment effects were not observed in patients with a high SDNN at baseline. Similar results were obtained using baseline total power or low-frequency power, but not when using baseline heart rate. Diltiazem reduced the total duration of ischemia by -4.9 minutes (-9.7 to -0.1), but not the number of episodes. Moreover, in contrast to metoprolol, efficacy of diltiazem was not related to baseline HR variability. In conclusion, patients with reduced HR variability at baseline responded to treatment with metoprolol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7586246
Stroke is the most feared complication of thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction because of the resulting mortality and disability. We analyzed the incidence, timing, and outcomes of stroke in an international trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7587995
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7599749
Neurohormonal activation may provide a pathophysiological link between acute myocardial infarction and chronic congestive heart failure, and modulation of neurohormonal activity may be an important therapeutic target in these conditions. Plasma neurohormones were studied in 55 patients with acute myocardial infarction. Angiotensin II, noradrenaline and ANP were elevated in the early phase but tended to normalize during the first week in patients without signs of heart failure. In patients with heart failure angiotensin II and noradrenaline remained elevated for 1 month and ANP for 4-6 months. During head-up tilt, angiotensin II and noradrenaline increased most in patients with heart failure. In patients with a first myocardial infarction there was a positive correlation between sustained neurohormonal activity and infarct size. Almost complete suppression of plasma ACE activity was achieved within 30 min in 48 patients treated with intravenous enalaprilat, initiated within 24 h from the onset of infarction. The drug was tolerated in dosages of 1.0-1.2 mg given over 1-2h. Patients with systolic blood pressure between 100 and 110 mmHg incurred a greater risk of hypotension than those with higher blood pressure at baseline. Tolerance was not worse among patients treated with intravenous diuretics, metoprolol or nitroglycerin. A total of 98 patients were randomized to treatment with enalapril or placebo, initiated within 24 h from onset of infarction and continued for 4-6 months. During treatment there were no significant differences in plasma levels of angiotensin II, aldosterone, ANP or catecholamines between groups. Echocardiographic recordings were performed in 28 patients. Among patients on placebo there was a positive correlation between plasma levels of noradrenaline at days 5-7 and the increase in left ventricular volumes during the study period, and an inverse correlation between plasma aldosterone at days 5-7 and the increase in left ventricular ejection fraction during the study. No such correlation was found among patients on enalapril. ANP levels at 1 month correlated inversely with the left ventricular ejection fraction at the same time. Plasma neurohormones were measured in 223 patients with mild or moderately severe chronic heart failure, randomized to treatment with ramipril or placebo for 3 months. There was wide variation in hormone levels. Noradrenaline and aldosterone correlated inversely with exercise duration at baseline. Noradrenaline correlated positively with the degree of symptoms. Aldosterone and ANP were reduced with ramipril compared with placebo. Noradrenaline was reduced among patients with baseline levels in the highest tertile. Plasma hormones were also measured at peak exercise in 54 patients. Hormonal levels at rest correlated strongly with those at peak exercise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7599759
Antihypertensive treatment can slow down the decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) with time. In patients with diabetic nephropathy, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition has been shown to be more effective in this regard than conventional antihypertensive therapy. Whether this applies to the much larger population of patients with essential hypertension is not yet known. In the present study, the effects of two different antihypertensive therapies on the loss of GFR with time, determined with Cr51-EDTA clearance after 6, 12 and 24 months of treatment, were assessed in a prospective, randomised, double-blind trial in 257 patients with essential hypertension. All had normal renal function and none had diabetes mellitus or glucosuria. Proteinuria (dipstick positive or trace) was detected in 7 patients initially. The two therapeutic modalities were the ACE inhibitor cilazapril and the beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent atenolol. Both therapies were equally effective in lowering systolic blood pressure (e.g. from 168 mmHg to 152 mmHg with cilazapril and from 170 mmHg to 155 mmHg with atenolol after 6 months, p < 0.001 for both). However, atenolol was slightly but significantly more effective in lowering the diastolic blood pressure at 6, 12 and 24 months. The decline in GFR with time was significantly smaller with cilazapril than with atenolol. After 6 months the reduction in GFR was 1.0 vs. 4.0 ml/min x 1.73 m2, p = 0.008 (cilazapril vs. atenolol) and after 12 months the corresponding changes were 2.0 vs. 4.5 ml/min x 1.73 m2, p = 0.04 and after 24 months 3.0 vs. 4.0 ml/min x 1.73 m2, respectively (n.s.).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7600653
beta-Blocker therapy has been shown to increase ejection fraction in patients with heart failure of idiopathic etiology. However, in patients with heart failure of ischemic etiology, the effects of this treatment on left ventricular function remain uncertain, as do the effects on exercise performance and symptoms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7601014
Spirapril is a non-sulfhydryl angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor prodrug which is converted to the active metabolite spiraprilat following oral administration, and which has been evaluated primarily for the treatment of hypertension. In dose-finding studies of patients with mild to severe hypertension, spirapril > or = 6 mg once daily produced reductions in blood pressure of approximately 10 to 18 mm Hg (systolic) and 7 to 13 mm Hg (diastolic) [24-hour postdose trough readings at the end of the treatment period]. Blood pressure normalisation (trough diastolic blood pressure < or = 90 mm Hg) had occurred in 29 to 50% of patients at the end of these investigations. The dose-response curve for spirapril appears to be flat for doses of 6 to 24 mg once daily. Comparisons with other ACE inhibitors are limited in number, and further studies are required before the relative antihypertensive efficacy of spirapril can be fully evaluated. However, in single, well controlled clinical trials, spirapril produced similar reductions in blood pressure to those seen with enalapril or captopril. When given as monotherapy or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide, spirapril may offer potential advantages over the calcium antagonist nitrendipine. Spirapril is generally well tolerated and produces an adverse event profile similar to that of other ACE inhibitors. Data from small studies suggest that spirapril can be used without dosage adjustment in patients with renal impairment, as a consequence of its dual renal and hepatic clearance mechanisms. This is in contrast to most ACE inhibitors, which are eliminated by a predominantly renal mechanism that results in accumulation of the active metabolite when renal function is impaired. However, the utility of spirapril in this patient group has yet to be fully determined because of conflicting data regarding its effects on renal function. Thus, spirapril is an effective antihypertensive agent which is well tolerated. Further comparative trials are needed to fully determine its efficacy with respect to other ACE inhibitors, and a better understanding of its effects on renal function will clarify its role in hypertensive patients with renal failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7601427
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7607766
Using echocardiographic and Doppler methodology, we evaluated the effects of celiprolol 200-400 mg/day and metoprolol 100-200 mg/day, given for one year, on haemodynamics, left ventricular structure and function, and aortic root distensibility in 40 hypertensive patients. Total peripheral resistance was unchanged with metoprolol (-1.7%) but decreased with celiprolol (-11.2%), a significant difference between the two treatments (P = 0.01). Left ventricular mass index was reduced by 5.7% in those patients receiving metoprolol and by 11.8% in those receiving celiprolol (P < 0.001). Cardiac index fell significantly with metoprolol and marginally with celiprolol (-13.9% vs. 5.9%, P = 0.003). Left ventricular diastolic function-as shown by the transmitral early to late peak filling velocity ratio-was not altered with metoprolol, but a significant increase (17%, P = 0.2) was seen with celiprolol. Both metoprolol and celiprolol increased aortic root distensibility, with celiprolol having a significantly greater effect (80% vs. 30%, P < 0.01). We conclude that, in comparison to metoprolol, long term antihypertensive therapy with celiprolol improves left ventricular diastolic and aortic root function, whilst reducing total peripheral resistance and left ventricular hypertrophy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7611920
To compare the efficacy of carvedilol, a new antihypertensive drug that combines vasodilatory and beta-blocker properties, with nifedipine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7614494
This study investigated the therapeutic efficacy of two different beta-blockers, metoprolol (beta 1-selective) and nipradilol (nonselective) for the treatment of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). The New York Heart Association functional class improved in the metoprolol group (n = 9) and the nipradilol group (n = 9), but not in the control group who received conventional therapy (n = 8). The left ventricular ejection fraction increased in both the beta-blocker groups (p < 0.01, p < 0.05). Lymphocyte beta-adrenoceptors were upregulated in the nipradilol group (p < 0.01). Cardiac events were less common in both the beta-blocker groups than in the control group (both p < 0.05). Thus, nipradilol improved symptoms and cardiac function with a favorable effect on sympathoneuronal activity as well as metoprolol in patients with DCM. Therefore, beta 1-selectivity is not essential to achieve therapeutic efficacy with beta-blockade therapy for DCM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7614501
Studies on the effect of antihypertensive agents on resistance arteries in hypertensive patients have in the past yielded inconclusive results regarding the ability of these drugs to induce a regression toward normal of either the structure or the function of these critically important vessels. We have recently compared the effects of the angiotensin-I-converting enzyme inhibitor cilazapril and of the beta blocker atenolol on the structure and the function of subcutaneous resistance arteries of essential hypertensive patients. The patients were randomly assigned to receive either cilazapril or atenolol for a period of 2 years. The blood pressure was normalized for the duration of the trial by both drugs. The media-to-lumen ratio of resistance arteries, which was significantly increased in all hypertensive patients before starting treatment, was normalized by the 2-year treatment with cilazapril, whereas treatment with atenolol did not result in any change in this vascular parameter. Treatment with cilazapril also returned to normal the contractile responses to several vasoconstrictors, particularly endothelin 1. Endothelium-dependent relaxation responses of blood vessels to acetylcholine were abnormal in hypertensive patients and improved in the cilazapril-treated patients, but remained unchanged in the atenolol-treated ones. We conclude that treatment with the angiotensin-I-converting enzyme inhibitor cilazapril corrects in part the vascular remodeling and the functional abnormalities of resistance arteries of hypertensive patients, whereas treatment with the beta blocker atenolol does not. These results may indicate that treatment with cilazapril and perhaps with other angiotensin-I-converting enzyme inhibitors as well may improve the clinical outcome in hypertension by inducing a regression of abnormal resistance vessel structure and function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7614504
Antihypertensive treatment has been shown to slow down the decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) with time. This has been most extensively studied in patients with diabetic nephropathy and, to some extent, with other forms of renal disease. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition has been shown to be more effective in this regard than conventional antihypertensive therapy. This important aspect of antihypertensive treatment has not been studied previously in patients with essential hypertension. Preliminary results regarding the effects of two different antihypertensive therapies on the loss of GFR with time, determined with 51Cr-EDTA clearance after 6, 12, and 24 months of treatment, are presented here. The GFR was assessed in a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial in 257 patients with essential hypertension. All had a normal renal function, and none had diabetes mellitus or glucosuria. The two therapeutic modalities were the ACE inhibitor cilazapril and the beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent atenolol. Both therapies were equally effective in lowering the systolic blood pressure. However, atenolol was slightly but significantly more effective in lowering the diastolic blood pressure after 6, 12, and 24 months. The decline in GFR with time was significantly smaller with cilazapril than with atenolol. After 6 months, the reduction in GFR was 1.0 (cilazapril) vs. 4.0 (atenolol) ml/min x 1.73 m2 (p < 0.01). After 12 months the corresponding changes were 2.0 vs. 4.5 ml/min x 1.73 m2 (p < 0.05) and after 24 months 3.0 vs. 4.0 ml/min x 1.73 m2 (n.s.).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7621844
We have assessed the propensity of beta-adrenoceptor blockers to cause muscle cramps and to raise the serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) level in 78 patients with essential hypertension. After a control period, a beta-adrenoceptor blocker without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA; propranolol, metoprolol or arotinolol) was administered for three months. Thereafter, the patients were randomised to receive a beta-adrenoceptor blocker with ISA (pindolol or carteolol) for three months or a beta-adrenoceptor blocker without ISA for a further three months. This pattern was continued until all beta-adrenoceptor blockers had been given. At the end of each period, CPK and CPK-MB levels were measured. Of the 78 subjects, muscle cramps occurred in 27 during treatment with pindolol and 32 during treatment with carteolol. No complaints were made by subjects treated with propranolol and arotinolol, but muscle cramps were reported in 2 treated with metoprolol. While muscle cramps were caused both by pindolol and carteolol in 16 subjects, they were caused by either of these drugs in the remainder of the subjects. Muscle cramp occurred mainly in the calves when the patients were in bed at night. Serum CPK and CPK-MB levels increased significantly during treatment with pindolol (control period vs pindolol, CPK = 96 vs 133 IU.ml-1, CPK-MB = 14 vs 18 IU.ml-1) or carteolol (CPK = 117 IU.ml-1, CPK-MB = 18 IU.ml-1) while the levels during treatment with propranolol, arotinolol and metoprolol did not change from those in the control period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7631621
To investigate the concept that the initial treatment of hypertension with low doses of two antihypertensives that have different modes of action and additive effects may achieve control of blood pressure and minimize the dose-dependent adverse effects seen with conventional monotherapy, a randomized, double-blind parallel group dose-escalation study was conducted. After a 4 to 5 week placebo washout period, 218 men and women with diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 114 mm Hg were randomly allocated to take: amlodipine (2.5 to 10 mg), enalapril (5 to 20 mg), and the low-dose combination of bisoprolol (2.5 to 10 mg) with 6.25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). All drugs were administered once daily, titrated to optimal response, and taken for a total of 12 weeks. Blood pressure was measured 24 hours after dose. The response rates (either a diastolic blood pressure < or = 90 mm Hg or a decrease of diastolic pressure > or = 10 mm Hg) were 71% for bisoprolol-6.25 mg HCTZ, 69% for amlodipine, and 45% for enalapril. The mean decreases in systolic/diastolic blood pressure from baseline were 13.4/10.7, 12.8/10.2, and 7.3/6.6 mm Hg for bisoprolol-6.25 mg HCTZ, amlodipine, and enalapril, respectively. The mean change with enalapril was less than the other drugs (p < 0.01), although the once-daily dosing of enalapril and the maximum dose of 20 mg might not have been optimal for this agent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7639651
To investigate the safety profile and efficacy of 2.0% dorzolamide hydrochloride, when administered three times daily for up to 1 year, compared with that of 0.5% timolol maleate and 0.5% betaxolol hydrochloride, each administered twice daily. In addition, the effect of adding dorzolamide to the regimen of patients with inadequate ocular hypotensive efficacy while they were receiving one of the two beta-adrenoceptor antagonists and the effect of adding timolol to the regimen of patients receiving dorzolamide were also evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7642847
This report from the Asymptomatic Cardiac Ischemia Pilot (ACIP) study examines differences in the magnitude of reduction of myocardial ischemia as determined by exercise treadmill testing in patients randomized to three different treatment strategies: angina-guided medical therapy, ischemia-guided medical therapy and coronary revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7642848
This report discusses the outcome at 1 year in patients in the Asymptomatic Cardiac Ischemia Pilot (ACIP) study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7642857
This study sought to examine the incidence, temporal profile and clinical implications of shock in a large trial of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7642858
This study was designed to test the hypothesis that monitoring the ST segment on a single electrocardiographic (ECG) lead reflecting activity in the infarct zone provides sensitive and specific recognition of reperfusion within 60 min of initiation of therapy in acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7648243
We compared the beta 1-selective adrenoceptor antagonists bisoprolol and atenolol in a double-blind, randomized crossover study. After 4 weeks placebo phase, 59 patients with essential hypertension received either 10 mg bisoprolol or 50 mg atenolol once daily for 8 weeks, increased if necessary (target BP < or = 150/90 mmHg) to 20 and 100 mg, respectively, after 4 weeks. After a second placebo phase, crossover occurred to the alternative drug. We measured resting systolic and diastolic blood pressures and heart rate at 24 h post-dose baseline and after 4 and 8 weeks treatment. Both drugs significantly lowered systolic and diastolic blood pressures and heart rate at 8 weeks compared to baseline (all p < 0.05). Bisoprolol reduced heart rate significantly more than atenolol (p < 0.01), but systolic and diastolic blood pressure changes were not different between the two drugs. There was no difference in patient acceptability of the drugs as assessed by visual analogue scale. Despite theoretical and circumstantial evidence to suggest superiority of bisoprolol over atenolol, no significant difference between the two was found except for greater heart rate reduction with bisoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7649315
To assess the efficacy and safety of labetalol compared with methyldopa in the management of mild and moderate cases of pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7649498
The aim of the present study was to ascertain the comparative efficacy of cyclandelate, a migraine prophylactic with calcium overload blocking properties, versus propranolol, a non-selective beta-adrenergic blocker, and placebo. Based on different statistical analysis procedures (including time series analysis) a responder and nonresponder evaluation for cyclandelate and propranolol was performed. In addition, an attempt was made to identify the dose relationship of the various drugs on headache parameters. In a double-blind placebo-controlled study 84 patients were treated in a placebo run-in phase (4 weeks). The patients were then randomized by the statistical criterion of placebo responder and nonresponder to either the cyclandelate or the propranolol group. The total treatment period included a low-dosage phase (8 weeks) and high-dosage phase (8 weeks). All patients kept a headache diary before, during and after treatment. The data were assessed by time series analysis (ARIMA), as well as by analysis of variance and nonparametric statistics. Based on ARIMA statistics, 39.3% of the patients showed a significant improvement of migraine during treatment with cyclandelate compared with 29.4% placed on propranolol. Higher doses of cyclandelate and propranolol were more effective. Using the qualitative response-criterion of a 50% reduction in migraine symptoms, cyclandelate showed a response in 67.9% and propranolol in 41.2% of all cases. It can therefore be concluded that cyclandelate as well as propranolol are two comparable substances in the prophylactic treatment of migraine, with cyclandelate showing fewer side effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7649593
This article reviews our work on the effects of different classes of antihypertensive agents on the hemodynamic alterations in essential human hypertension. Short-term studies were done during cardiac catheterization in young normotensive subjects (mean age, 33 years; range, 19 to 40) and several different age-matched (range, 25 to 53 years) groups of patients with essential hypertension. Aortic impedance, resistance, wave reflections, and compliance were calculated from high-fidelity recordings of ascending aortic pressure and flow signals during baseline and after nitroprusside, propranolol followed by phentolamine, phentolamine, captopril, and nifedipine, respectively, at doses sufficient to normalize blood pressure in each hypertensive group. Propranolol exacerbated all the hemodynamic parameters; these effects were only partially overcome by phentolamine. Among the other agents only phentolamine did not completely normalize compliance, and only captopril did not completely normalize wave reflections. The long-term study was a randomized, double-blind comparison of fosinopril and atenolol in 79 normotensive subjects and 79 essential hypertensive patients. Baseline 24-hour ambulatory blood pressures and carotid artery tonometry to index wave reflections were performed in all subjects and in hypertensive patients after 8 weeks of therapy. Both fosinopril and atenolol normalized blood pressure and lowered the elevated augmentation index, but fosinopril had a significantly larger effect than atenolol. Both short- and long-term beta-blockade did not have as beneficial an effect as the other agents. Thus, the differing hemodynamic effects of the various classes of antihypertensive agents might be a consideration in the choice of therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7654109
An important issue in clinical practice is how to treat patients whose blood pressure does not respond to the first antihypertensive drug selected.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7656846
To measure changes in haemodynamics and myocardial blood flow after acute intravenous (i.v.) and intracoronary (i.c.) injection of bisoprolol in patients with coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7657286
The association beta-blockers plus nitrates has been reported to impair renal function and renal sodium handling, leading to increased risk of development of ascites, or worsening of a preexisting ascites, or increase in the requirements of diuretic agents. In 81 patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices, participating in a multicenter controlled clinical trial of prophylaxis of variceal bleeding comparing nadolol (NAD) plus isosorbide-5-mononitrate (I5M) with NAD alone, renal function, presence of ascites, and diuretic requirements were assessed at inclusion and after 6 months of follow-up. No significant variation in s-urea or s-creatinine was observed in either group, Three patients in the nadolol group and two in the NAD plus I5M developed ascites at 6 months (P = .70), and a need to increase diuretic regimen was observed in four and three patients, respectively (P = .76). Decrease in heart rate and in mean arterial pressure was similar in the two groups. There was a significant correlation between increases in s-creatinine and decrease in mean arterial pressure in the whole series (P = .015). Only in patients treated with the association was there a significant larger proportion of patients ascitic who became anascitic, than of patients anascitic who became ascitic (P = .03). In patients treated with the association, there was a significantly larger decrease in hepatic venous pressure gradient (P = .05). It is concluded that patients treated with the association NAD plus I5M are not at increased risk of developing renal dysfunction or worsening of ascites compared with patients treated with NAD alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7662225
The effect of different antihypertensive drugs on the increased surface beta 2-adrenoceptor density in essential hypertension was evaluated to elucidate whether the possible effect of the treatment on these receptors was secondary to blood pressure decreases or a specific effect of the drugs. Thirty-nine untreated essential hypertensive patients and 28 normotensive control subjects were studied in basal conditions. Hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to three treatment groups: bisoprolol (10 mg/day, n = 15), enalapril (20 mg/day, n = 12), and verapamil SR (240 mg/day, n = 12), and were studied before and after 1 month of treatment. Plasma catecholamines were determined by a radioenzymatic assay. Surface beta 2-adrenoceptors were measured in intact lymphocytes by radioligand binding assay using the hydrophilic ligand [3H]-CGP12177. beta 2-adrenoceptor density was increased in hypertensive patients (P < .01). After treatment, mean blood pressure decreased similarly in the three groups, while plasma catecholamines showed no significant changes in any group. beta 2-adrenoceptor number decreased only in bisoprolol-treated patients (P < .05). Mean blood pressure decreases correlated with beta 2-adrenoceptor decrements only in bisoprolol-treated patients (r = 0.65, P < .05). beta 2-adrenoceptor density correlated with plasma epinephrine levels in the control group (r = -0.50, P < .01), but not in hypertensive patients before treatment. This correlation was also observed in hypertensive patients treated with bisoprolol (r = -0.52, P < .05), but not in those treated with verapamil or enalapril. Our results suggest that bisoprolol treatment reduces the increased surface beta 2-adrenoceptor density and restores its regulation by epinephrine in essential hypertension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7662242
The objective of this study was to compare the antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of losartan potassium (losartan) and atenolol in patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. This was a multinational, prospective, randomized, 12-week double-blind parallel study with a follow-up of 4 to 10 days posttreatment to assess any adverse effects of abrupt therapy withdrawal. Two hundred two patients were randomized (2:1) to treatment with losartan or atenolol, 50 mg once daily. Patients were titrated after 6 weeks to 100 mg once daily if their blood pressure was uncontrolled (sitting diastolic blood pressure > or = 90 mm Hg). Trough sitting diastolic blood pressure reductions at weeks 6 and 12 were similar in both the losartan (-9.2 mm Hg and -8.3 mm Hg) and atenolol (-10.8 mm Hg and -10.1 mm Hg) groups and a similar percentage of patients responded to each drug. Both agents were generally well tolerated, although eight patients (two patients taking losartan, and six taking atenolol) were withdrawn because of clinical adverse events (P < or = .05). Reduction in pulse rate from baseline averaged 10 beats/min in the atenolol group with no pulse rate reduction observed in the losartan group (P < .01). No evidence of rebound hypertension was observed in either group. In conclusion, losartan was as efficacious as atenolol in blood pressure reduction, and was at least as well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7664433
Clinical trials have shown that beta-adrenergic blocking drugs are effective and well tolerated in patients with mild to moderate heart failure, but the utility and safety of these drugs in patients with advanced disease have not been evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7664508
Aerobic exercise and beta-blocking drugs are regularly prescribed as treatment for hypertension and as a prophylactic for patients at risk from coronary heart disease and for those recovering from an infarct. Some beta blockers, particularly non-beta 1-selective drugs, may make exercise more difficult, possibly by interfering with substrate metabolism during exercise. This study examined the effects of low and high doses of a beta 1-selective blocker, metoprolol, and a non-selective beta blocker, propranolol, on exercise metabolism. The study involved 20 healthy subjects (10 men, 10 women) who walked on a treadmill at 50% of their maximal oxygen uptake for 1 h on five occasions, separated by 7 days. On each of the five occasions they received one of the following treatments, given in random order: placebo, metoprolol 50 mg, metoprolol 100 mg, propranolol 40 mg, or propranolol 80 mg, all taken twice daily. Fat oxidation, expressed as a percentage of total energy expenditure, was significantly lower than with placebo for all of the active treatments except metoprolol 50 mg (placebo: 42.7 +/- 11.6%; metoprolol 50 mg: 38.7 +/- 14.1%, p = NS; metoprolol 100 mg: 36.3 +/- 13.7%, p = 0.05; propranolol 40 mg: 31.2 +/- 9.3%, p = 0.01; propranolol 80 mg: 29.5 +/- 10.9%, p = 0.01); and significantly lower with propranolol than with metoprolol (propranolol 40 mg: p = 0.0036; propranolol 80 mg: p = 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7669306
To assess the value of end-tidal anesthetic gas monitoring with respect to intraoperative hemodynamic stability and recovery times.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7669481
1. In order to evaluate whether treatment with different antihypertensive drugs would affect plasma fibrinogen levels, 118 mild to moderate essential hypertensive subjects, all males, aged 18 to 65 years, were randomly treated with amlodipine 10 mg, atenolol 100 mg, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg or lisinopril 20 mg, all given once daily for 8 weeks. 2. Before and after 8 weeks' treatment, blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), fibrinogen, total cholesterol (TC), HDL-C, LDL-C, triglycerides (TG), plasma glucose, plasma uric acid, serum creatinine and serum potassium were evaluated. 3. All four medications significantly reduced BP values, although the BP lowering effect of lisinopril, amlodipine and atenolol was significantly greater compared with that of hydrochlorothiazide. 4. Plasma fibrinogen levels were unaffected by atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide and amlodipine, whereas they were significantly decreased by lisinopril (-11.2%, P = 0.002). This fibrinogen lowering effect was more evident in smokers (-17.7%) than in non smokers (-7.4%). 5. Atenolol and amlodipine did not significantly affect plasma lipids, hydrochlorothiazide increased TC, LDL-C and TG and reduced HDL-C; lisinopril increased HDL-C and decreased TC and LDL-C. 6. Hydrochlorothiazide increased plasma glucose and uric acid concentrations, which were unaffected by the other drugs. The diuretic also reduced serum potassium. 7. The results of this study indicate that lisinopril reduces levels of plasma fibrinogen and confirm that different antihypertensive drugs may elicit different metabolic effects, which may variously influence the overall risk profile of the hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7695954
To evaluate the antihypertensive efficacy at rest and under exercise, and the modifications induced on the left ventricular mass in patients treated with two different doses of a diuretic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7702198
Celiprolol, a novel beta blocker, may be more effective than propranolol in unstable angina pectoris because of both its beta-1-receptor selectivity and its vasodilator property. In the present report 53 patients with angiographic coronary artery disease but uncompromised left ventricular function and with electrocardiographically documented recurrent angina pectoris in spite of bed rest, aspirin, and repeated sublingual administration of nitroglycerin were studied. They were randomized for treatment with equipotent doses of either the nonselective beta blocker propranolol (80 mg/day) or the selective beta blocker with beta-2-agonistic property, celiprolol (200 mg/day) during one week. Angina frequency was higher in the propranolol group (P < 0.01), whereas myocardial oxygen demand as estimated by the double product (DP = SBP x HR, systolic blood pressure x heart rate) was equally reduced by the two beta blockers. Forearm blood flow was essentially higher in the celiprolol group (P < 0.001). A stepwise logistic regression analysis showed that the beneficial effects of the beta blockers were largely dependent on their effect on peripheral flow, in addition to reduction of the double product. The authors conclude that (1) Both celiprolol and propranolol largely reduce angina pectoris frequency in unstable angina pectoris. (2) Celiprolol contributes to nearly complete relief in three times as many patients as propranolol; after adjustment for double product or for systolic blood pressure plus heart rate it performs even eight times better. (3) The similar effects of the two compounds on the double product and the essentially different effects on peripheral flow support the conclusion that celiprolol exerts its beneficial effect to a large extent through its vasodilator property.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7717013
The effects of the calcium channel blockers diltiazem on the parasympathetic nervous system were studied by using spectral analysis of heart rate variability, and were compared with the effects of the beta-receptor blocker metoprolol. The area under the curve of the high-frequency range (f = 0.18-0.35 Hz) during controlled respiratory rate (f = 0.25 Hz) was used as a quantitative index of parasympathetic activity. Twenty-four male patients with proven coronary artery disease and normal left ventricular function (LVEF > 60%) were studied 2 weeks after chronic treatment with diltiazem (3 x 60 mg daily) or metoprolol (3 x 50 mg daily) before and after administration of the drug. Twelve patients received diltiazem and 12 patients metoprolol. After administration of diltiazem the peripheral systolic blood pressure was reduced, but the parasympathetic activity was significantly higher than compared with the initial measurement. The same effect was seen for metoprolol, but a significant lower heart rate was present after administration. The relative area under the high-frequency range significantly increased at rest, by 110% after diltiazem and 70% after metoprolol. Diltiazem and metoprolol enhance the vagal influence at the heart, thereby leading to an enhancement of barosensitivity and of the respiratory sinus arrhythmia. This action may contribute to the beneficial effects of both drugs in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7717294
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7719523
The use of effective blood-pressure-lowering drugs has not achieved the expected reduction in the incidence of ischaemic heart disease in hypertensive patients. This study examined the cardiovascular effects of adrenergic blockade (alpha or beta, or both) and its effect on the fibrinolytic response of the endothelium to anoxia and lipoprotein metabolism in 78 hypertensive patients with ischaemic heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7721386
In a double-blind randomized trial, the effects of treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (perindopril) and a beta-blocker (atenolol) on small artery structure were compared in previously untreated essential hypertensive patients. Subjects (diastolic blood pressure > or = 100 and < or = 120 mm Hg) were randomly assigned to treatment for 12 months with either perindopril (n = 13, 4 to 8 mg/d) or atenolol (n = 12, 50 to 100 mg/d); the dosage was adjusted upward and in some cases combined (n = 5, perindopril; n = 2, atenolol) with thiazide diuretic to achieve target blood pressure (diastolic blood pressure below 90 mm Hg). Before and at the end of treatment, gluteal biopsies were taken under local anesthetic; from these biopsies, two small arteries were dissected and mounted on a myograph for morphometry. The reduction in blood pressure with atenolol (drop in mean blood pressure 28.4 +/- 1.8 mm Hg) was greater than with perindopril (20.6 +/- 1.8 mm Hg, P < .05). Perindopril treatment caused an increase in small artery diameter (231 +/- 14 to 274 +/- 13 microns, P < .05) and a reduction in the ratio of media thickness to lumen diameter (7.94 +/- 0.65% to 5.96 +/- 0.42%, P < .05), whereas atenolol had no effect (246 +/- 14 to 231 +/- 13 microns and 7.14 +/- 0.47% to 6.79 +/- 0.45%, respectively). The change in small artery morphology caused by perindopril was not accompanied by any change in media cross-sectional area, suggesting that the change was due to "remodeling."(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7721419
The effect of treatment with two different antihypertensive agents on the function of small arteries from 17 patients with essential hypertension randomly assigned to receive either the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor cilazapril or the beta-blocker atenolol was investigated. Subcutaneous small arteries obtained from gluteal fat biopsies were studied on a wire myograph before treatment and at 1 and 2 years of treatment. Blood pressure was mildly elevated in both groups of patients (mean, 150/100 mm Hg) and was well controlled throughout the 2 years of treatment (mean, 130/85 mm Hg). We previously reported, in arteries from patients treated with cilazapril, an improvement at 1 year of treatment of the vasoconstrictor effect of endothelin-1, which had been significantly attenuated in the untreated hypertensive patients compared with normotensive subjects. After 2 years of treatment, this normalization of endothelin-1 response was still present in small arteries of patients treated with the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor, whereas in patients treated with atenolol, responses were still unchanged after 2 years of treatment. Endothelial function was tested by examining the response of norepinephrine-precontracted arteries to acetylcholine. Untreated hypertensive patients exhibited a slightly but significantly blunted vasorelaxation in response to 10 mumol/L acetylcholine compared with normotensive subjects. After 1 and 2 years of effective antihypertensive treatment, cilazapril-treated patients exhibited responses to acetylcholine that were not different from those of normotensive subjects, whereas atenolol-treated patients still had impaired responses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7721498
The choice between beta-blockade or nitrates as first line treatment for stable angina pectoris is based upon the different mechanisms of action and patient characteristics. We performed a clinical trial comparing the efficacy of the longacting beta-blocker bisoprolol once daily and the short acting nitrate, isosorbide dinitrate, three times daily in the reduction of anginal complaints in daily life and under stress. Thirty patients were enrolled in a double-blind randomised cross-over study. Both bisoprolol and isosorbide dinitrate were effective in reducing anginal attacks and nitroglycerin consumption significantly, but bisoprolol was significantly more effective than isosorbide dinitrate. Bisoprolol improved the workload during bicycle exercise testing significantly, but the improvement with isosorbide dinitrate was not significant. Despite the reduction in maximal rate pressure product, bisoprolol was significantly (P < 0.05) more effective at improving total workload and reducing the time to onset of angina than isosorbide dinitrate. The rate pressure product did not change significantly with isosorbide dinitrate. In this study, bisoprolol 10 mg once daily was more effective and caused less side effects than isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg three times a day. It seems questionable if monotherapy of isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg t.i.d is an adequate drug regime for stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7722114
This study assessed the safety and efficacy of carvedilol in patients with heart failure caused by idiopathic or ischemic cardiomyopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7722129
Our aim was to determine the percent of patients with myocardial infarction who are treated with beta-adrenergic blocking agents in dosages proved to be effective in preventing death after a heart attack.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7723351
To clarify the mode of action of the vasoactive agent buflomedil, we evaluated plasma levels of adenosine and adenine nucleotides after intravenous (i.v.) infusion in humans of 50, 100, and 200 mg of the drug in 20 min. Buflomedil induced an increase of the same order of magnitude in plasma levels of adenosine and adenine nucleotides. Maximal adenosine increase (84%) was observed at the end of the infusion period, whereas peak plasma levels of ATP and ADP (69 and 55%, respectively) and of AMP (61%) were detected 10 and 5 min after discontinuation of infusion, respectively. Although the exact mode of action of buflomedil at the molecular level remains unclear, some indirect findings suggest that the increase in adenosine may be due to enhanced release rather than to inhibition of cell uptake. Because such activity of buflomedil consists of enhancement of physiologic mechanisms of vasodilation and tissue protection occurring in the course of ischemic events, new pharmacologic perspectives for the drug may arise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7723358
The effects of isradipine and atenolol on platelet function and fibrinolytic activity were studied in 10 male patients with mild untreated hypertension. After a 2-week placebo run-in period, the volunteers were randomized to either isradipine 2.5 mg twice daily or atenolol 100 mg daily for a 6-month period. Those initially receiving isradipine then received atenolol and vice versa. After each therapy regimen, blood was drawn at rest and 1 h after exercise during a maximum exercise test. Platelet activity in vivo was estimated as release of B-TG and PF-4. Fibrinolytic activity was estimated as the fast-acting inhibitor against tissue plasminogen activator usually termed PAI-1. During atenolol and isradipine therapy, blood pressure (BP) was equally reduced (p < 0.05). Heart rate (HR) decreased during atenolol treatment but was not changed by isradipine. Platelet activity in vivo estimated as B-TG and PF-4 decreased irrespective of therapy (p < 0.02). During atenolol, as during placebo therapy, exercise resulted in a significant increase in platelet activity, as shown by an increase in B-TG (p < 0.02) and in PF-4 (p < 0.01). Such increase was not observed during isradipine treatment. Both treatments tended to improve fibrinolysis, as shown by a decrease in PAI, 1 h after exercise. Reducing BP with isradipine or atenolol results in a similar decrease in platelet activity and PAI-level, tested at rest and 1 h after rest, respectively. During exercise, platelet activity increased during atenolol treatment; such change did not occur during isradipine treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7726892
A meta-analysis of the effect of antihypertensive drug treatment on mortality and morbidity in elderly patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7731256
Adjunctive therapy for acute myocardial infarction should include aspirin, beta-adrenergic blocking agents, and, in most patients, consideration of the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, especially if left ventricular function is reduced. Heparin has an important adjunctive role in enhancing early vessel patency in patients who receive tissue-type plasminogen activator and in decreasing the frequency of reocclusion of an infarct-related artery during any thrombolytic therapy. Heparin must also be administered to all patients who undergo primary angioplasty. Intravenously administered nitroglycerin and orally administered nitrates are probably most effective in patients with symptomatic ischemia. Calcium channel blockers and prophylactic antiarrhythmic agents are not indicated for most patients with acute myocardial infarction. Currently, insufficient evidence is available to recommend the widespread use of intravenously administered magnesium sulfate in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. In patients with ischemic pain, judicious intravenous administration of morphine can provide relief. Use of warfarin sodium should be reserved for patients at risk for left ventricular mural thrombus. Although the use of lipid-lowering agents after myocardial infarction has been controversial, recent studies have demonstrated the importance of such therapy for secondary prevention of death and morbidity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7731301
To assess the prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients referred to an outpatient cardiology unit, and to assess its evolution under antihypertensive treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7737712
We conducted this study to compare the effects of fosinopril versus atenolol on peripheral blood pressure, central arterial wave reflection, and left ventricular mass in a group of patients with essential hypertension. We conducted a double-blind, randomized trial of fosinopril and atenolol in 79 hypertensive patients (52 men, 27 women; mean age, 45.8 +/- 8.5 years; range, 30 to 68 years). Carotid pressure waveforms were recorded noninvasively by applanation tonometry with a Millar micromanometer-tipped probe. The extent of wave reflection was estimated by the augmentation index defined as the ratio of the amplitude of pressure wave above its systolic shoulder to the pulse pressure. The augmentation index, left ventricular mass index by two-dimensional echocardiography, and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressures were determined before and after 8 weeks of daily treatment with fosinopril (10 to 20 mg) or atenolol (50 to 100 mg) with or without diuretics and compared with those values in 79 normotensive control subjects. After 8 weeks of treatment, both drugs lowered 24-hour ambulatory peripheral systolic and diastolic pressures into the normal range to a similar extent (fosinopril, -18/-13 mm Hg; atenolol, -23/-17 mm Hg, both P = NS). On the other hand, whereas the elevated augmentation index in hypertensive patients compared with normotensive subjects (16 +/- 11% versus 10 +/- 8%) was completely normalized by fosinopril (-9.3 +/- 9.8%, P < or = .002), it was lowered by atenolol (-4.8 +/- 8.9%, P < .002) but to a significantly smaller extent (fosinopril versus atenolol effect, P = .04).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7738212
In most cases, the antihypertensive therapy for an individual patient is selected through a process of trial and error. This study determined if, by treating each hypertensive patient sequentially, with six antihypertensive drugs, one from each of the major classes, one could decide on the best possible drug for control of hypertension. In a randomized open-label crossover study, 19 patients (16 male and 3 female), 28-70 years of age with a sitting diastolic blood pressure of 95-110 mm Hg were given atenolol, captopril, clonidine, indapamide, prazosin, and verapamil in a sequential manner. Each drug was started at the minimum recommended or lower dose and titrated upwards every 2 weeks, if well tolerated, until blood pressure was controlled (diastolic BP < 90 mm Hg). If blood pressure was controlled, the drug was continued for another 2 weeks. A washout period of at least 2 weeks was allowed between drugs. Both systolic and diastolic blood pressures were reduced significantly with all of the six drugs. In 18 of the 19 patients, blood pressure was controlled with at least one of six drugs, frequently with the lowest dose. The authors conclude that if hypertension is not controlled with the lowest recommended dose of a drug, other antihypertensive drugs should be tried sequentially rather than increasing the dose or adding a second drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7738291
The aim of the study was to compare 2 beta-blocker eye drops at a low concentration: 0.5% carteolol and 0.1% timolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7743529
Randomized clinical trials are essential in objectively assessing treatment options. However, badly designed trials can generate impressive results, and good trial data may be interpreted differently by practicing clinicians. One example of the latter is the use of intravenous atenolol in acute myocardial infarction where, despite a large trial clearly demonstrating that immediate therapy is relatively safe in patients with acute myocardial infarction and reduces in-hospital mortality, its routine use remains extremely variable. The reasons for the poor uptake of atenolol in acute myocardial infarction, including anticipated clinical drawbacks, the way the trial data were published, and the marketing of beta blockers, are discussed in this paper.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7745771
To examine differences in outcomes and patient management between patients in the United States and outside the United States undergoing thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7751430
This 30-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study was designed to (1) establish that 6.25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) given once daily with 5 mg of bisoprolol fumarate can contribute to antihypertensive effectiveness in patients with stage I and stage II (mild to moderate) systemic hypertension; and (2) assess whether this formulation was more effective or possessed a safety advantage over standard monotherapy with bisoprolol or 25 mg of HCTZ. Results showed that HCTZ 6.25 mg contributed significantly to the antihypertensive effectiveness of bisoprolol 5 mg. Bisoprolol 5 mg/HCTZ 6.25 mg (B5/H6.25) produced significantly greater mean reductions from baseline in sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure (-15.8 mm Hg/-12.6 mm Hg) than bisoprolol 5 mg alone (-10.0 mm Hg/-10.5 mm Hg) and HCTZ 25 mg alone (-10.2 mm Hg/-8.5 mm Hg). A 73% response rate was achieved with the low-dose formulation compared with 61% for the bisoprolol 5 mg (B5) group and 47% for the HCTZ 25 mg (H25) group. B5/H6.25 was found to be significantly more effective than B5 or H25 in all subgroups of patients, regardless of gender, race, age, or smoking history. Antihypertensive effects were maintained during the 24-hour dosing interval. The incremental effectiveness of B5/H6.25 was not accompanied by an increase in the frequency or severity of adverse experiences; the incidence of adverse experiences in the B5/H6.25 group was comparable to that in the placebo group. B5/H6.25 was shown to provide safety advantages over H25, as shown by less hypokalemia (< 1% with B5/H6.25 versus 6.5% with H25).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7752174
The effects of celiprolol 200 mg or 400 mg once daily on blood pressure (BP), serum lipids, plasma fibrinogen and airways function was compared with the effects of metoprolol 100 mg or 200 mg once daily in 171 patients with mild to moderate hypertension and coexistent hyperlipidaemia in a double-blind, multicentre study lasting 1 year. Significant decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were observed compared with baseline (DBP: celiprolol -13.3 mm Hg, P < 0.0001; metoprolol -14.3 mm Hg, P < 0.0001; SBP: celiprolol -18.2 mm Hg, P < 0.0001; metoprolol -20.5 mm Hg, P < 0.0001; heart rate celiprolol -4 beats/min, P < 0.003; metoprolol -12 beats/min, P < 0.0001). There was no difference between the effects of the two treatments on BP but celiprolol had less effect on heart rate than metoprolol, (celiprolol-metoprolol 7.3 beats/min, P = 0.0002). When compared with baseline values celiprolol significantly reduced serum low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) (-5.8%, P = 0.0401) and produced a slight increase in high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) which approached statistical significance (4.1%, P = 0.0659). Metoprolol significantly increased serum triglycerides (32%, P = 0.0001) and the total/HDL-C ratio (7.4%, P = 0.0192). Compared with metoprolol, celiprolol significantly reduced LDL-C (-7.3%, P = 0.0062), total cholesterol (-4.5%, P = 0.0085), apoliproprotein B (-10.1%, P = 0.0001), the apolipoprotein B/A1 ratio (-10.9%, P = 0.0001), the total cholesterol/HDL-C ratio (-10.8%, P = 0.0001) and triglycerides (-24.8%, P = 0.0001), and significantly increased HDL-C (6.0%, P = 0.0043).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7752178
The primary objective in this multicentre, double-blind randomised, parallel study was to compare the metabolic effects of 12 months of treatment with an ACE inhibitor (enalapril) with those of a selective beta-blocker (atenolol) in patients with mild hypertension. The patients (35-69 years of age) were included if they were without antihypertensive drugs and after six months of nonpharmacological treatment had supine DBPs between 90 and 104 mmHg; 220 patients were randomised to enalapril (20 or 40 mg/day) and 218 to atenolol (50 or 100 mg/day). After 12 months of treatment, atenolol significantly increased the glucose concentrations at 60, 90 and 120 minutes after an oral intake of 75 g glucose (P < 0.01), while enalapril did not. Atenolol significantly increased fasting blood glucose and insulin concentration 120 minutes after glucose intake, while enalapril did not. Plasma total cholesterol and triglycerides increased significantly in patients having atenolol but not in those having enalapril. HDL cholesterol decreased significantly in the atenolol group but not in the enalapril group. The proportions of patients with clinical adverse experiences were similar in both treatment groups. These results indicate that enalapril does not influence either glucose tolerance or lipoprotein metabolism while atenolol does. These findings are consistent over the 12 month treatment period and confirm earlier short-term study results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7755476
Seventeen male untreated mild essential hypertensive patients with a mean age of 41 years agreed to participate in a double-blind randomized trial to test the effects of treatment with cilazapril, an inhibitor of angiotensin I converting enzyme, in comparison to treatment with atenolol, a beta-blocker, on the structure and function of subcutaneous resistance arteries. Patients were randomized to receive either cilazapril 2.5-5 mg or atenolol 25-100 mg per day per day. Blood pressure before treatment was 147/99 and 148/99 mmHg in both groups respectively. At 1 year of treatment blood pressure was 132/86 and 131/85 mmHg in both groups of patients respectively. Treatment for one year with cilazapril resulted in a reduction in the media/lumen ratio of resistance arteries (150-400 microns lumen diameter) dissected from subcutaneous gluteal biopsies from 7.5 +/- 0.3% before treatment to 6.3 +/- 0.2% 1 year later (p < 0.05), still slightly but significantly larger (p < 0.05) than the media/lumen ratio of resistance arteries of normotensive controls (5.1 +/- 0.3%). In arteries from patients treated with atenolol there was no significant change with treatment (8.0 +/- 0.6% before and 8.1 +/- 0.5% after 1 year of treatment). Active wall tension responses to endothelin-1 were blunted in hypertensive patients and normalized in the cilazapril-treated patients, but were unchanged in those taking atenolol. Relaxation in response to acetylcholine of norepinephrine pre-contracted arteries was still significantly reduced after one year (< 0.05) in comparison to those of normotensive patients in the patients treated with atenolol, whereas they were not in those who had received cilazapril.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7755948
The antihypertensive efficacy of six drugs and placebo was compared in 1292 men with untreated diastolic blood pressure of 95 to 109 mm Hg. The primary end point "success" was defined as the patient having achieved a diastolic blood pressure of < 90 mm Hg at the end of the drug titration period and having maintained a diastolic blood pressure of < 95 mm Hg for 1 year without drug intolerance. The original published success rate data (N Engl J Med 1993;328:914-921) were discovered to be in error due to a computer programming code omission (N Engl J Med 1994;330:1689). This paper presents corrected graphic figures. The corrected success rates were generally higher than originally published. Overall, diltiazem (72%) was significantly higher than hydrochlorothiazide (55%), prazosin (54%), captopril (50%), and placebo (31%); clonidine (62%) and atenolol (60%) were intermediate. There were some changes in the hierarchy of drug response, but important differences in success rates according to age by race subgroups remained. Whites responded well to all drug classes, except for lower efficacy of hydrochlorothiazide in younger whites. Blacks responded better to diltiazem than other agents. In addition, we have analyzed the data using a definition of success based on < 90 mm Hg for 1 year. Use of the <90 mm Hg criterion reduced the rate of success, but had only a minor effect on the drug success rate hierarchy. We conclude that single-drug antihypertensive therapy is effective in a majority of stage 1 to 2 diastolic hypertensive patients, although there are important age-by-race differences in success rates among various drug classes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7759701
The present study was designed to investigate which characteristics of anginal symptoms or exercise test results could predict the favorable anti-ischemic effect of the beta-adrenergic blocking agent metoprolol and the calcium antagonist nifedipine in patients with stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7774515
Ramipril is a second generation angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. Like enalapril, it is a prodrug and is hydrolysed in vivo to release the active metabolite, ramiprilat, which has a long elimination half-life, permitting once-daily administration. The antihypertensive efficacy of ramipril has been confirmed in large-scale noncomparative studies conducted in general practice as well as in more rigorously controlled clinical trials. In the former, approximately 85% of patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension have responded successfully to treatment with ramipril 2.5 or 5 mg/day, while comparative trials indicate that the antihypertensive efficacy of the drug is equivalent to that of other established ACE inhibitors and the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist atenolol. As expected, the response rate to ramipril monotherapy is lower in patients with severe hypertension (around 40%), although the blood pressure lowering effect can be enhanced with the addition of a diuretic such as hydrochlorothiazide or piretanide. The antihypertensive efficacy of ramipril is maintained in patients with diabetes mellitus and preliminary data indicate that the drug has the beneficial effect of decreasing urinary albumin excretion in diabetic patients with nephropathy. Ramipril is superior to atenolol in causing regression of left ventricular hypertrophy, although the clinical significance of this effect per se remains to be established. The large-scale Acute Infarction Ramipril Efficacy (AIRE) study demonstrated that ramipril 5 or 10 mg/day significantly decreased the risk of all-cause mortality by 27% in patients with clinical evidence of heart failure after acute myocardial infarction, even if transient. The beneficial effect of ramipril was apparent by 30 days of treatment and appeared to be greatest in patients with more severe ventricular damage after infarction. Ramipril is well tolerated in general practice, with 5% or fewer patients discontinuing therapy because of drug intolerance. The data available suggest that ramipril shares a similar tolerability profile to that of other established ACE inhibitors. Thus, clinical data confirm ramipril as a useful alternative ACE inhibitor for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate hypertension, and indicate a beneficial effect of the drug in patients with clinical evidence of heart failure after acute myocardial infarction. It is also reasonable to assume that ramipril will be of value in the treatment of patients with more established heart failure or asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7774991
We evaluated the acute antianginal effect of oral nisoldipine (10 mg), metoprolol (40 mg), and long-acting isosorbide dinitrate (20 mg) in 15 patients with stable exertional angina. The patients performed symptom-limited treadmill exercise at 2 h after the administration of placebo (Placebo stages 1 and 2) and each of the active drugs. After Placebo stage 1, the patients were randomized for cross-over evaluation of the acute effect of a single oral dose of placebo (Placebo stage 2), nisoldipine, metoprolol, or long-acting isosorbide dinitrate. All 15 patients developed angina during all of exercise tests and their exercise tests were terminated at the onset of angina. The time until development of 0.1 mV ST segment depression was increased by all three drugs compared to placebo, and it was significantly longer with metoprolol than with isosorbide dinitrate. Similarly, the time to ceasing exercise because of angina was also prolonged by all three drugs. The exercise time was longer with nisoldipine and metoprolol compared to isosorbide dinitrate, but there was no significant difference between nisoldipine and metoprolol. In conclusion, metoprolol and nisoldipine more effectively prolonged exercise compared to long-acting isosorbide dinitrate in patients with stable exertional angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7775548
A randomised study was performed on 70 patients undergoing elective coronary by-pass procedure to examine whether the combined, perioperative, 24-hour infusion of nifedipine and metoprolol reduces the incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia and arrhythmias. The control group received nifedipine only. Repeated assessments of serum enzyme levels and 12-lead-ECG together with a 3-channel Holter monitoring over 48h were used to classify perioperative myocardial ischemia and supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias. The two groups did not differ with respect to their demographic data, extracorporeal circulation, aortic cross-clamping time, or number of distal anastomosis. No perioperative myocardial infarction in either group was detected. However, a significantly lower incidence of transient ischemic event was observed in the NM group as compared transient ischemic events was observed in the NM group as compared to the N group. In addition, there was a tendency towards lower CK-MB-level and peak-values of CK- and CK-MB-enzymes in the NM group. With regard to perioperative dysrhythmias, there was a significantly lower incidence of sinus tachycardia and atrial flutter/fibrillation in the NM group as compared to the N group. In addition, postoperative heart rate was lower in the NM group starting from the 6th hour after opening the aortic cross-clamp. In conclusion, the combined perioperative infusion of nifedipine and metoprolol is superior in preventing perioperative myocardial ischemia and decreasing the incidence of supraventricular arrhythmias as compared to a single-drug regimen with nifedipine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7779149
Sixteen hypertensive male out-patients (33-54 y), whose blood pressure (BP) had been normalized (diastolic BP < 90 mmHg) by treatment with a daily dose of 50 mg atenolol (CAS 29122-68-7), participated in this double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study, which investigated the possible influence of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug tenoxicam (CAS 59804-37-4) on the control of BP by atenolol. After a run-in of 10 days, to assess the stability of BP control by atenolol, and to determine baseline parameters, 8 patients in group A received 20 mg tenoxicam (2 x 20 mg on days 1 and 2), and 8 patients in group B received placebo, daily over 15 days (days 0-14), concomitantly with their atenolol regimen. BP was measured under standardized conditions on several days. Heart rate (EHR) after 5 min of exercise by bicycle ergometry (constant 75W), and parameters of renal function were assessed before (baseline) and during concomitant dosing of atenolol and tenoxicam. On day 14 the mean changes (delta A, delta B) from baseline of pre-dose BP (mmHg) and EHR (beats/min) in groups A and B, and the one-sided 95% confidence regions (R) for delta A, respectively, were (delta A, delta B, R): 4.4, 1.6, < 9.5 for sitting systolic BP, 2.8, -0.3, < 4.5 for sitting diastolic BP, -0.3, -0.6, < 5.5 for standing systolic BP, -0.6, -1.9, < 3.0 for standing diastolic BP, 0.4, -7.5, < 0.4 for EHR at pre-dose, 3.1, 0.6, < 7.8 for EHR at 3.5 h post-dose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7782140
The Danish Verapamil Infarction Trial II (DAVIT II) demonstrated from the second postinfarction week, that long term treatment with verapamil significantly improved reinfarction free survival after an acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The present post hoc analysis of DAVIT II was undertaken with the purpose of evaluating the effect of treatment with verapamil in patients with early electrical complications, i.e. ventricular or atrial fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, or second or third degree atrioventricular block, with or without mechanical complication, i.e. heart failure, during the first post-AMI week. In the placebo group, the 18-month mortality rate was lowest (9.5%) in patients without electrical or mechanical complications, highest (24.6%) in patients with electrical events only, and in-between (17.5%) in patients with mechanical problems regardless of presence of electrical complications. Verapamil significantly reduced the 18-month mortality rate in patients with early electrical without mechanical complications (60% reduction, P = 0.02), and in patients without mechanical complications (35% reduction, P = 0.02). Verapamil did not change the mortality rate in patients with mechanical complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7783099
Anti-hypertensive drugs differ in their effects on other cardiovascular risk factors. To date there have been few attempts to quantitate the impact of such differences. Twenty five unmedicated patients with primary hypertension were randomised to initial therapy with either the calcium antagonist, felodipine, or a diuretic and doses titrated to achieve similar levels of blood pressure (BP). Second drugs were added if needed (metoprolol and prazosin, respectively). The aim was to determine over 1 year whether similar anti-hypertensive effects were associated with differences in a multivariate index of overall cardiovascular risk. The target supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (85 mm Hg) required the second agent in four of 13 evaluable patients in the felodipine group and six of 10 in the diuretic group. There was a significant rise in serum cholesterol and a fall in serum potassium in the diuretic group, but not in the felodipine group. Cardiovascular risk scores were ranked in percentiles in relation to the age-matched general population. This score fell to a greater degree in felodipine patients particularly over the first 6 months, but remaining lower at 12 months. Left ventricular hypertrophy assessed by echocardiography, another measure of cardiovascular risk, was generally unchanged by either regimen. At equivalent blood pressure levels, the calcium antagonist-based regimen had a greater benefit on cardiovascular risk, particularly in the first 6 months of therapy. This method may be widely applicable in the assessment of anti-hypertensive therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7786531
To compare the efficacy of propafenone to atenolol in the prevention of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias (SVT) following cardiac surgery, 207 consecutive patients were randomly allocated to receive either propafenone 300 mg twice daily (105 patients) or atenolol 50 mg once daily (102 patients) orally for 7 days after operation. Double blinding was achieved using placebos. The end point was the development of a SVT which was symptomatic, recurrent, or lasting over 2 minutes, or the occurrence of adverse effects possibly attributable to the drugs. The groups were well matched for age, sex, bypass- and cross-clamp times, and other data. Thirteen patients in the propafenone group and 11 in the atenolol group developed SVT during the first week after operation. (P = 0.89, non significant, chi-squared with Yates' correction). In our study propafenone and atenolol were of approximately equal efficacy in preventing post cardiotomy SVT. Propafenone may have an advantage in being less negatively inotropic than atenolol; it could therefore be used in patients with poor left ventricular function or marginal haemodynamics when a beta blocker is contraindicated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7786690
Ninety-five patients with acute myocardial infarction were followed up for 6 months to 3 years (mean 25.4 months) in a preliminary study to compare the effects of intravenous magnesium (49 patients) with that of intravenous propranolol (44 patients) given immediately after admission to the intensive care unit. There were four cardiac deaths in the propranolol group and no deaths in the magnesium group (P < 0.046) and 27 per cent of patients who received propranolol subsequently developed cardiac failure as opposed to 12 per cent of those who had received magnesium (P < 0.04). Intravenous magnesium given in the early stages of myocardial infarction reduces the subsequent cardiac death rate possibly by reducing infarct size.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7794571
To investigate the effects of antihypertensive drugs on resistance artery structure, 17 essential hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to be treated with an angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor, cilazapril, or a beta-blocker, atenolol, for 2 years. Blood pressure was well controlled throughout the 2 years. Before starting treatment, at the end of the first year and at the end of the second year, patients were subjected to gluteal subcutaneous fat biopsies, from which resistance-size arteries were dissected to be studied. The media width to lumen diameter ratio of arteries from patients in the cilazapril group was 7.5 +/- 0.3% before starting treatment, and decreased significantly (P < .05) to 6.3 +/- 0.2% at the end of the first year, and to 5.8 +/- 0.2% at the end of the second year, at which time it was not different from that of arteries from normotensive subjects (5.2 +/- 0.2%). In patients treated with atenolol, resistance arteries exhibited a media-to-lumen ratio of 8.0 +/- 0.6% before treatment, 8.1 +/- 0.5% after 1 year of treatment, and 7.9 +/- 0.3% at the end of the second year of treatment, all significantly higher (P < .01) than that of arteries from normotensive subjects. Thus, treatment for 2 years with the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor cilazapril resulted in progressive normalization of the structure (media-to-lumen ratio) of gluteal subcutaneous fat resistance arteries of essential hypertensive patients, whereas there was no change in patients treated with the beta-blocker atenolol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7798494
The aim of this study was to determine which patients will have systolic and diastolic improvement after beta-blockade with metoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7798508
We compared the effects of bisoprolol on transient myocardial ischemia with those of nifedipine in patients with chronic stable angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7801853
The effects of 1 month of treatment with either verapamil or metoprolol on several aspects of platelet function were studied at rest and during physical exercise or mental stress in patients with stable angina pectoris participating in the Angina Prognosis Study in Stockholm. Platelet aggregability was measured by filtragometry ex vivo, which reflects platelet aggregability in vivo and by Born aggregometry in vitro. Platelet secretion in vivo was assessed by measurements of beta-thromboglobulin in plasma. Verapamil reduced plasma norepinephrine levels (from 2.6 +/- 1.0 to 2.2 +/- 1.0 nmol/L; p < 0.01) and attenuated platelet aggregability at rest (filtragometry readings were prolonged from 219 to 295 seconds; p < 0.05, n = 46). Aggregability in platelet-rich plasma was not influenced. Metoprolol did not significantly affect filtragometry readings (n = 58) or aggregability in vitro (there was a tendency toward enhanced adenosine diphosphate sensitivity; p = 0.08). beta-thromboglobulin levels were low (approximately 25 ng/ml) and not influenced by either treatment. Physical exercise (bicycle ergometry) increased platelet aggregability in vivo both before and after drug treatment. Verapamil also attenuated platelet aggregability after exercise, whereas metoprolol had no such effect. Platelet function was not seriously altered by mental stress (Stroop's color word test) despite significant effects on hemodynamics and plasma catecholamines either before or after treatment with either drug. Thus, verapamil attenuates platelet aggregability in patients with stable angina pectoris, whereas metoprolol has no such effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7806173
This study investigated the correlation between changes in hepatic and systemic hemodynamics and femoral blood flow (FBF), measured by dual-beam pulsed wave Doppler, in 58 portal hypertensive patients receiving propranolol (0.15 mg/Kg intravenously; n = 44) or placebo (n = 14) under double-blind conditions. Placebo administration had no effects. Propranolol caused significant reductions (P < .0001) in hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG; from 19.1 +/- 4.1 to 16.2 +/- 4.2 mm Hg), azygos blood flow (from 563 +/- 204 to 387 +/- 176 mL/min), cardiac index (CI; from 4.4 +/- 1.0 to 3.3 +/- 0.8 L/m2/min), and FBF (from 237 +/- 79 to 176 +/- 58 mL/m2/min). In 17 patients HVPG decreased below 12 mm Hg and/or more than 20% of the baseline value (good response; mean change, -26 +/- 8%); in the remaining 27 patients (poor response) the mean change in HVPG was less: -9 +/- 6%. Patients with a good response had bled less often from varices, had significantly higher FBF (272 +/- 73 vs. 215 +/- 76 mL/m2/min) and lower baseline HVPG (16.8 +/- 3.9 vs. 20.6 +/- 3.6 mm Hg) than those with poor response in HVPG. The good response was also associated with greater decreases in FBF (-33 +/- 12 vs. -19 +/- 13% in poor responders), CI (-30 +/- 9 vs. -19 +/- 12%), and heart rate (-19 +/- 5 vs. -16 +/- 6%). A decrease in FBF of > 20% predicted a good response in 16 of 28 patients (positive predictive value, 57%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7814158
The aim of the study was to verify, during thrombolysis in patients with anterior acute myocardial infarction, the safety and effects of beta-blockers or ACE-inhibitors and their combination in the short and long term. One-hundred sixty-six patients hospitalized within 4 h from the onset of the symptoms (first episode), eligible for thrombolysis, Killip class I-II, were randomized (single blind) into four groups. Group A (42 patients) received 6.25 mg captopril (orally) 15 min before thrombolysis and metoprolol (i.v.) not later than 1 h, and orally afterwards. Group B (42 patients) received 6.25 mg captopril 15 min before thrombolysis. Group C (37 patients) received metoprolol not later than 1 h. Group D (45 patients) received thrombolysis only. Later (day 3), groups C and D also received captopril. We checked ventricular arrhythmias (first 2h) from thrombolysis, creatine kinase peak, creatine kinase peak normalization time, late ventricular arrhythmias at Holter test pre-discharge (Lown's class > 2). At follow-up (mean 30.5 +/- 2 months), mortality was evaluated for reinfarction and ventricular failure. Age and sex were similar. Results: Early ventricular arrhythmias: Group A, five cases; Group B, five cases; Group C, 15 cases; Group D, 16 cases. Creatine kinase peak: Group A, 1875 +/- 220 U/l; Group B, 1566 +/- 168 U/l; Group C, 2274 +/- 212 U/l; Group D 2103 +/- 232 U/l. Creatine kinase peak normalization time: Group A, 57.7 +/- 3 h; Group B, 58.1 +/- 3 h; Group C, 72.7 +/- 3 h; Group D, 69.5 +/- 2 h (P < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7824411
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7826557
The Trial of Antihypertensive Interventions and Management (TAIM) was a multicenter randomized drug (double-blind, placebo-controlled)-diet trial. One objective of TAIM was to assess the long-term ability of a low-sodium/high-potassium (Na+ decreases/K+ increases) diet to maintain blood pressure control in persons at 110% to 160% ideal weight with diastolic blood pressure from 90 to 100 mm Hg who were on no drugs or on low-dose monotherapy. Participants, 56% men and 33% black, were randomized to usual diet (n = 296) or to Na+ decreases/K+ increases diet (n = 291) and within each diet group to placebo, 25 mg/day chlorthalidone, or 50 mg/day atenolol. Treatment failure was defined as lack of blood pressure control requiring additional drugs according to specified criteria. At baseline, the mean value for age was 48 years; blood pressure, 143/93 mm Hg; weight, 88 kg; and 24-h urinary sodium and potassium excretion rates, 133 and 57 mmol/day, respectively. At 3 years, the net difference in 24-h urinary sodium/potassium excretion rates between the Na+ decreases/K+ increases and the usual diet groups was -30 and +11 mmol/L/day. The relative risk of treatment failure for Na+ decreases/K+ increases compared to usual diet by proportional hazards regression was 0.95 (P = .71). This study provides no support for the sole use of a low-sodium/high-potassium diet as a practical therapeutic strategy in maintaining blood pressure control in the moderately obese.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7828294
In healthy human hearts, beta 2-receptor-mediated chronotropic and inotropic responses contribute to the cardiac responses to beta-agonists. A (patho)physiological relevance for beta 2-receptor-mediated responses has so far not been demonstrated, in part because beta 1-receptor-mediated responses to cardiac neuronally released norepinephrine can mask beta 2-receptor-mediated responses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7830324
Although limited numbers of elderly subjects have occasionally been included in population-based studies, only a few studies have been conducted specifically on elderly hypertensives, and practically none at a population level. We studied 655 hypertensive subjects from a cohort of 2,254 elderly subjects. The intervention consisted of the creation of a Hypertension Outpatients' Clinic under our auspices but with complete co-operation from general practitioners, randomizing the identified hypertensive patients into pre-established therapeutic drug regimens, and early follow-up recording of mortality for 7 years. The drugs used were clonidine (n = 61), nifedipine (n = 146) and the fixed combination of atenolol+chlorthalidone (n = 144); 304 subjects underwent "free therapy" by their personal physicians without any special intervention. There were 1,404 normotensive subjects. Overall 7-year follow-up mortality was 34.9% in the hypertensive subjects receiving "free therapy", 22.5% in those receiving "special care", and 24.2% in the normotensives. Cardiovascular mortality was respectively 23.7%, 12.2%, and 12.0%. Overall and cardiovascular annual cumulative mortality were significantly lower in the < special therapy > than in the < free therapy > group. The fixed combination of atenolol and chlorthalidone reduced mortality below that of the normotensives, independent of other cardiovascular risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7832129
Smokers with acute myocardial infarction appear to have a better outcome after thrombolysis than do nonsmokers. To identify factors that could contribute to this curious finding, we analyzed data from the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI-4) trial, in which 382 patients with acute myocardial infarction were randomized to tissue plasminogen activator, anistreplase, or both. Coronary angiography was performed 90 minutes and 18 to 36 hours after randomization, a myocardial perfusion scan was performed at 18 to 36 hours and before discharge, and a radionuclide ventriculogram was obtained before discharge. Angiographic and clinical outcome variables were determined in current smokers, ex-smokers, and nonsmokers, and regression analysis was used to correct for differences in baseline characteristics. The in-hospital mortality of current smokers was lower than that of ex-smokers and nonsmokers: 2.3% versus 5.2% versus 7.0%, respectively (p = 0.04 by paired comparison, current vs nonsmokers). Ninety minutes after randomization, the incidence of TIMI grade 3 flow was significantly higher in smokers than in ex-smokers and nonsmokers (55% vs 43% and 45%, p = 0.02); this difference was no longer observed at the second angiogram, nor did smokers differ from nonsmokers with respect to residual stenosis, thrombus grade, infarct size, ejection fraction, or recurrent ischemia. Because a strong inverse relation exists between TIMI grade 3 flow at 90 minutes and mortality, our findings suggest that the lower mortality of current smokers after thrombolytic therapy may be related to a higher incidence of early, complete reperfusion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7832135
The effects of doxazosin or atenolol on exercise capacity in 15 male distance runners (mean age +/- SD 43 +/- 10 years) were compared in a double-blind, crossover study. Subjects performed a maximal treadmill test and a timed 2-mile run before and after each drug treatment. Cardiac output was determined by acetylene rebreathing at rest and at 30%, 50%, and 75% of maximal oxygen consumption. Oxygen consumption was determined at the above-mentioned workloads and at maximal effort. Both drugs were titrated to produce similar reductions in blood pressure and the final doses of atenolol and doxazosin were 43 +/- 22 and 6 +/- 6 mg, respectively. Atenolol reduced cardiac output (p < 0.05) and heart rate (p < 0.001) at rest and at all exercise intensities compared with the prior placebo phase, whereas doxazosin increased cardiac output at rest and at 50% effort (p < 0.05). Consequently, cardiac output was higher (p < 0.01) with doxazosin than with atenolol at rest and at 30% and 50% effort. Heart rate was higher with doxazosin (p < 0.01) during all exercise workloads. Despite these changes in cardiovascular function, there were no significant differences between the effect of the 2 study drugs on maximal oxygen consumption or 2-mile run times. We conclude that atenolol decreases rest and exercise heart rate and cardiac output compared with doxazosin, but that at modest doses neither drug adversely affects exercise performance in male hypertensive runners.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7835362
We wished to assess the effects of beta-blockade on baroreflex sensitivity and standard tests of integrity of autonomic nervous function in patients with coronary artery disease, and to determine whether the effects of lipophilic (metoprolol) and hydrophilic (atenolol) beta-blockers differ. Beta-blocking drugs increase spontaneous heart rate variability in healthy subjects and in patients with coronary heart disease, but little is known about their effects on baroreflex sensitivity and heart-rate based tests of autonomic integrity. In a randomly allocated double-blind crossover study with three 2-week treatment periods, metoprolol CR 200 mg once a day, or atenolol 100 mg once a day, or placebo once a day, were administered to 18 male patients with stable coronary artery disease. Baroreflex sensitivity was determined from the natural baroreflex challenge of Valsalva strain. Heart rate reactions to standard stimuli were measured. No significant differences were found between the effects of atenolol and metoprolol. Beta-blockade did not significantly affect the baroreflex sensitivity, but it diminished the Valsalva ratio significantly (P < 0.001). The difference between maximum and minimum heart rate during hyperventilation was also significantly lower during beta-blockade. The heart rate response to standing up and the ratio of maximum to minimum heart rate during deep breathing were not influenced by beta-blockade. Discontinuation of beta-blockade seems to be unnecessary for reliable determination of baroreflex sensitivity in patients with coronary artery disease, when the natural pressure challenge of Valsalva strain is sued. Both hydrophilic and lipophilic bet-blockers interfere with certain diagnostic tests of autonomic nervous function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7835373
Celiprolol is a novel beta 1 selective adrenoreceptor blocker with partial beta 2 agonism and direct vasodilator activity. These ancillary properties may reduce symptomatic breathlessness and fatigue and modify respiration during exercise. To test this hypothesis 20 men with stable effort angina were enrolled in a double-blind crossover study to investigate the effects of atenolol 100 mg once daily (A) and celiprolol 400 mg once daily (C) on cardiorespiratory and symptomatic variables during maximal and submaximal exercise. Total exercise time on a modified Bruce protocol was similar on both treatments: C12.5 min, A 13.1 min. During steady state submaximal exercise at 60-75% (mean 68%) of maximum work capacity, minute ventilation (C33.81 min-1, A 33.51 min-1), oxygen uptake (C14.6 ml.kg-1.min-1, A15.1 ml.kg-1.min-1), respiratory exchange ratio (C 0.89, A 0.87), ratio of VE/VCO2 (C 33.6, A 33.4), ratio of VE/VO2 (C 2.34, A 2.72), Borg perceived exertion score (C 11.2, A 10.9) and visual analogue scores for breathlessness (C 29.5, A 25.9) and muscle fatigue (C 28.9, A 26.0) were all similar on both treatments. At maximal exercise capacity on the modified Bruce protocol, minute ventilation (C 58.31 min-1, A 60.41 min-1), oxygen uptake (C 21.3 ml.kg-1.min-1, A 21.7 ml.kg-1.min-1), respiratory exchange ratio (C 1.02, A.1.05), ratio VE/VCO2 (C 34.8, A 35.9), and ratio VE/VO2 (C 2.80, A 2.83) were also similar on both drugs. Over a 10 day period anginal attacks (C 10.1 +/- 10.4, A 5.4 +/- 5.9) and sublingual GTN use (C 5.9 +/- 10.3, A 4.4 +/- 9.8) were both more frequent on celiprolol).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7840730
To evaluate the effect of various antihypertensive drugs on fasting and postprandial lipids and lipoproteins, we studied 39 normolipidemic hypertensive patients, 28 men and 11 women aged 52.3 +/- 9.0 and 58.5 +/- 7 years, respectively. After four weeks of placebo administration, lipids and lipoproteins were measured in the fasting state and every three hours for a period of nine hours after intake of a standardized fat mixed load (65 g/m2). Following this test, the patients were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups: group I metoprolol (n = 10), 100 mg/day; group II nicardipine (n = 9), 90 mg/day; group III captopril (n = 11), 75 mg/day. At the end of week four of treatment the fasting and postprandial lipid measurements were repeated. Blood pressure mean values were significantly (p < 0.05) reduced in the four treatment groups. We found no statistically significant lipids or lipoproteins changes neither in the fasting nor in the postprandial state, but a trend toward lower concentrations in the postprandial lipemia after treatment was observed in three groups (metoprolol, nicardipine and captopril), whereas no change was observed in the chlorthalidone group. These data confirm that fasting lipids and lipoproteins in normolipidemic hypertensive patients are not unfavorably changed by low doses of the drugs studied. In addition, we inform that postprandial lipemia is not affected by these four drugs in the doses used.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7843470
Forty-eight diabetic subjects with diet-failed Type 2 mellitus, aged 40-69 years, were randomised to metformin (24 patients) or glipizide (24 patients) therapy, and followed prospectively for 12 months. Most subjects were obese. Metformin gave better fasting plasma glucose control compared to glipizide at 24 (p < 0.01), 36 (p < 0.05) and 52 weeks (p < 0.05) with a lower HbA1 concentration at 52 weeks (p < 0.05). Metformin treated patients lost weight whereas glipizide treated subjects gained weight. The weight change between the treatment groups reached significance at 4 weeks (p < 0.05) and was highly significant (p < 0.001) at 8, 12, 24, 36 and 52 weeks. There were no significant changes in either fasting plasma lipid or blood lactate levels in either the metformin or glipizide treated groups. Both drugs caused a similar reduction in albumin excretion rates. In conclusion, metformin gave better glycaemic control than glipizide, with weight loss rather than weight gain in obese Type 2 patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7850941
A comprehensive evaluation of arterial load characteristics and left ventricular energetics in systemic hypertension has been limited by the need for invasive techniques to access instantaneous aortic pressure and flow. As a consequence of this methodological limitation, no data exist on the effects of long-term antihypertensive therapy on global arterial impedance properties and indexes of myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2). Using recently validated noninvasive techniques, we compared in hypertensive patients the effects of chronic oral treatment with ramipril, nifedipine, and atenolol on arterial impedance and mechanical power dissipation as well as indexes of MVO2.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7851072
The Hypertension in Diabetes Study (HDS) is an ongoing, multicentre, prospective randomized intervention trial of therapy of hypertension (> or = 160 and/or > or = 90 mmHg) in Type 2 diabetic patients. It compares tight blood pressure control (aim: < 150/85 mmHg) versus less tight control (aim: < 180/105 mmHg) and, within the tight control group, an ACE inhibitor, captopril, versus a beta blocker, atenolol. We report the efficacy, side-effects of treatment, biochemical responses and incidence of hypoglycaemia in 755 patients (mean age 57 years, blood pressure 150/94 mmHg) followed for 2 years. At 2 years, blood pressure was 143/84 in the tight control and 156/90 mmHg in the less tight control group (p < 0.0001). Blood pressure reduction, adherence to therapy, incidence of side-effects and of hypoglycaemia were similar on captopril and on atenolol. Patients on atenolol had a greater increase in body weight (+2.3 vs +0.7 kg, p < 0.01) and a non-significant trend to a greater increase in triglyceride than patients on captopril. A large blood pressure difference between the tight control and less tight control groups was obtained, with captopril and atenolol having similar hypotensive effects. The study has the potential to determine whether strict blood pressure control reduces the incidence of diabetic complications and whether ACE inhibitor or beta-blocker therapy is clinically advantageous.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7852749
To investigate whether there are definable subgroups of patients with essential hypertension who respond specifically to particular antihypertensive drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7856528
Although beta blockers have demonstrated a salutary effect on ventricular function in patients with heart failure, it is unclear whether a nonselective third-generation beta blocker produces different hemodynamic and energetic effects than a second-generation beta 1 selective agent. In 30 male patients with heart failure, we retrospectively analyzed hemodynamic data from 2 protocols examining the effects of a nonselective beta antagonist bucindolol (n = 15), and a highly selective beta 1 antagonist metoprolol (n = 15). Both studies were conducted in a similar fashion with patients undergoing cardiac catheterization before and after receiving 3 months of beta blockade. Both groups were matched at baseline in terms of ventricular function. beta blockade resulted in similar reductions in heart rate and similar improvements in ejection fraction, ventricular volumes, stroke and minute work, peak +dP/dt, and isovolumic relaxation in both groups. Only patients taking bucindolol had a significant within-group decrease in resting left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. The metoprolol group had a greater decrease in coronary sinus blood flow and myocardial oxygen consumption. Bucindolol increased cardiac index more than metoprolol, but did not increase stroke volume index more than metoprolol. The bucindolol group had an increase in systolic elastance, whereas the metoprolol group had a parallel left shift in this relation. Thus, metoprolol reduces coronary blood flow and myocardial oxygen consumption more than bucindolol, whereas bucindolol produces slightly more favorable improvements in resting cardiac index and end-diastolic pressure. Otherwise, these 2 agents produced similar hemodynamic changes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7856622
The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and clinical efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride, a new antidepressant, are described. Venlafaxine inhibits the reuptake of serotonin, norepinephrine, and, to a lesser extent, dopamine. In animal models, it does not significantly inhibit muscarinic, histaminic, or adrenergic receptor activity and does not inhibit monoamine oxidase. Venlafaxine is rapidly absorbed and metabolized in the liver to its active metabolite, O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV). Time to peak concentration is one to two hours for the parent compound and four to five hours for ODV. The pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine might be dose-dependent, although pharmacokinetic studies have had conflicting results. The major route of elimination is renal; thus, patients with renal dysfunction may require lower doses. In double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of venlafaxine for maintenance therapy, venlafaxine has shown effective antidepressant activity in severely ill patients with major depression. Antidepressant effectiveness may be apparent within two weeks; this finding needs to be replicated. The dosage is 75-375 mg/day administered in two or three divided doses. The strength of the antidepressant response may be correlated with increasing dosage. Nausea is the most commonly reported adverse drug reaction (ADR). Others include somnolence, dizziness, dry mouth, and sweating. All ADRs have commonly occurred at the beginning of therapy and decreased with time. Overall, venlafaxine is well tolerated. Venlafaxine is as effective as other available antidepressants. It may cause fewer anticholinergic, antihistaminic, and antiadrenergic ADRs and may have a quicker onset of therapeutic action than existing antidepressants.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7857585
The nocturnal production of melatonin synthesis has been associated with circadian mechanisms of the organization of sleep. It is well known that the synthesis of melatonin is under the control of pineal beta 1-adrenoreceptors. In this study the effect of ten weeks treatment with the beta-adrenoreceptor (beta-AR) blockers propranolol and ridazolol on melatonin synthesis and on sleep quality was examined in 42 patients suffering from essential hypertension. Before and after 6 and 10 weeks of beta-AR-blocker administration urinary sulfatoxymelatonin excretion rates were measured and sleep factors were evaluated by using a standardized sleep inventory consisting of self-rating sleepiness scales. After 6 and 10 weeks of treatment, a significant about 50 percent reduction of sulfatoxymelatonin was measured. No relationship between these reductions and changes in sleep factors was found. The results indicate that a reduced nightly amplitude of melatonin has minor significance for the organization of physiological sleep. Furthermore, it is suggested that pineal mechanisms beside the beta 1-adrenergic receptor transduction system serve to maintain the melatonin signal to a considerable extent during a chronic beta 1-AR blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7860905
This study compared the effects of amlodipine, atenolol and their combination on ischemia during treadmill testing and 48-h ambulatory monitoring.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7864430
This study was designed to evaluate effects of enalaprilat, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, on hemodynamic and hormonal responses during surgery at endotracheal intubation, incision, and limb-tourniquet inflation. Thirty patients undergoing limb procedures with general anesthesia (N2O/narcotic technique) and a pneumatic tourniquet were randomized to receive either preoperative enalaprilat (1.25 mg intravenously [i.v.] 20 min prior to induction) or intraoperative enalaprilat (0.625 mg i.v. at the onset of tourniquet-associated hypertension), with appropriate placebo controls. Arterial blood pressure and heart rate increased significantly in response to intubation in the placebo group. Although there were no significant differences in catecholamine levels, plasma renin activity was significantly increased at postincision in the preoperative-enalaprilat group versus the placebo group. This suggests that activation of the renin-angiotensin system may play a key role in mediation of intraoperative hemodynamic responses to endotracheal intubation. With respect to tourniquet hypertension, preoperative or intraoperative treatment with enalaprilat reduced neither the pressor response to tourniquet inflation nor the amount of enflurane subsequently required to control arterial blood pressure. These findings suggest that this response is mediated by pain pathways, and may be treated more effectively with anesthesia/analgesia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7867240
The effects of monotherapy with atenolol or diltiazem-SR on blood pressure, 24-h blood pressure (BP) load, and exercise capacity were tested in patients with mild to moderate (stages I and II) essential hypertension. After 3-week single-blind placebo therapy, patients with sitting diastolic blood pressure (SDBP) of 94-114 mmHg were randomized to atenolol 50 mg/day (62 patients) or diltiazem-SR 90 mg b.i.d. (60 patients) in a double-blind parallel study. Depending on SDBP response, the dose was increased to 100 mg/day for atenolol and 180 mg b.i.d. for diltiazem-SR. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure measurements and exercise tolerance test by the Bruce protocol were done at the end of placebo and active treatment. Compared with placebo, both atenolol and diltiazem-SR significantly decreased heart rate (HR), sitting systolic blood pressure (SSBP), SDBP, ambulatory BP, BP load for waking and sleeping hours, area under the BP curve, rate-pressure product (p < 0.001), and exercise time (NS). Atenolol exerted a greater effect on ambulatory BP, HR, rate-pressure product, waking diastolic BP load, and area under the 24-h BP curve. The drugs were well tolerated and caused no serious side effects necessitating discontinuation of treatment. These findings indicate that (1) monotherapy for hypertension with atenolol or diltiazem-SR is effective and well tolerated, (2) it decreases the 24-h BP load, (3) it does not interfere with exercise capacity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7871179
Cost-effectiveness analyses were reviewed in the following diagnostic and treatment categories: acute myocardial infarction (MI) and diagnostic strategies for coronary artery disease (CAD), coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), congestive heart failure (CHF), and arrhythmias. In the case of acute MI, coronary care units, as presently used, are rather expensive but could be made much more efficient with more effective triage and resource utilization; reperfusion via thrombolysis is cost-effective, as are beta-blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors post-MI in appropriate patients. Cost-effectiveness of CAD screening tests depends strongly on the prevalence of disease in the population studied. Cost-effectiveness of CABG surgery depends on targeting; eg, it is highly effective for such conditions as left-main and three-vessel disease but not for lesser disease. PTCA appears to be cost-effective in situations where there is clinical consensus for its use, eg, severe ischemia and one-vessel disease, but requires further analysis based on randomized data; coronary stents also appear to be cost-effective. In preliminary analysis, ACE inhibition for CHF dominates, ie, saves both money and lives. Cardiac transplant appears to be cost-effective but requires further study. For arrhythmias, implantable cardioverter defibrillators are cost-effective, especially the transvenous device, in life-threatening situations; radiofrequency ablation is also cost-effective in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome apart from asymptomatic individuals; and pacemakers have not been analyzed except in the case of biofascicular block, where results were variable depending on the situation and preceding tests.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7876657
Patients with unstable angina, refractory to intensive medical therapy, are at high risk for developing thrombotic complications, such as recurrent ischemia, myocardial infarction and coronary occlusion during coronary angioplasty. As both platelet aggregation and/or thrombus formation play an important role in this ongoing ischemic process, a monoclonal platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antibody (c7E3) or thrombolytic therapy (alteplase) might be able to modify the clinical course and underlying coronary lesion morphology. To evaluate whether alteplase or c7E3 could influence the incidence of complications, we randomized 36 and 60 patients, respectively to alteplase or placebo, or c7E3 or placebo. All patients exhibited dynamic ECG changes and recurrent pain attacks, despite maximal tolerated medical therapy. Patients were randomized in both studies after initial angiography had demonstrated a culprit lesion amenable for angioplasty. After study drug infusion quantitative angiography was repeated and angioplasty performed. Recurrent ischemia during study drug infusion occurred in 5, 6, 9 and 16 patients from the alteplase, placebo, c7E3 and placebo group, respectively. Major events defined as death, myocardial infarction or urgent intervention occurred in 7, 3, 1 and 7 patients, respectively. Two patients died: one in the alteplase group and one in the placebo group from the c7E3 study. The first patient due to retroperitoneal hemorrhage, the second as a result of recurrent infarction. Qualitative angiography showed resolution of clots in the c7E3 group only, while the same group of patients showed in 20% an improvement in TIMI flow grade, without deterioration in any patient from this group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7887106
Tachycardia and hypertension may cause myocardial ischaemia in patients with coronary heart disease going through major surgery. Thoracic epidural analgesia (TEA) has been reported to be beneficial in this situation. The haemodynamic effects of TEA in aortocoronary bypass surgery were investigated in 30 male patients < 65 years old and with ejection fraction > 0.5. They were randomized into 3 groups: the high dose fentanyl (HF) group receiving high-dose fentanyl (55 micrograms.kg-1) anaesthesia, the HF+TEA group receiving the same fentanyl dose+TEA with 10 ml bupivacaine 5 mg.ml-1 followed by 4 ml every hour, and the low dose fentanyl (LF) + TEA group receiving low-dose fentanyl (15 micrograms.kg-1) anaesthesia+TEA. Haemodynamic parameters, the use of vasoactive and inotropic drugs and fluid balance were followed during the operation and for 20 h postoperatively. Before bypass the only significant difference between groups was a higher mean pulmonary arterial pressure in the HF+TEA group and a lower systemic vascular resistance (SVR) in the LF+TEA group, both compared to the HF group. 89% of epidural group patients needed small doses of ephedrine whereas more HF group patients were given nitroglycerine. During bypass SVR and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were significantly higher and pump flow lower in the HF group compared to the LF+TEA group. More ketanserin to HF group patients and methoxamine to epidural group patients were given. After bypass heart rate increased in all groups. Lower MAP 0.5 h after bypass and higher filling pressures in the early post bypass period in the epidural groups, most pronounced in the HF+TEA group, were noted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7887361
It is common for patients seen by primary care physicians to be taking both nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and antihypertensive agents. If blood pressure control diminishes in these patients, the physician must evaluate the potential interaction between the two classes of medication. Although the increase in blood pressure secondary to NSAID use may be only 5 to 10 mm Hg, this increase may be enough to justify a change in medication. For this reason, it is important to evaluate the interaction between the two types of drugs and determine its clinical significance in specific patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7887841
To compare the intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering efficacy of 0.5% and 1.0% apraclonidine hydrochloride when used adjunctively with 0.5% timolol maleate in 129 patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7889236
Flecainide is a Class IC antiarrhythmic agent whose primary electrophysiologic effect is a slowing of conduction in a wide range of cardiac tissues. It is well absorbed and effective in suppressing isolated premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) or nonsustained ventricular arrhythmia but has only a modest efficacy when electrophysiologic testing is used as an endpoint. Its adverse effect on mortality in the CAST trial suggested a propensity to proarrhythmia--a phenomenon to which the Class IC agents appear particularly prone. Despite the applicability of the CAST study only to patients with a prior myocardial infarction, there has been a shift away from flecainide in ventricular arrhythmia, but the low noncardiac side effect profile of the agent allows for its continued use in a wide variety of supraventricular arrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7897129
We examined the time course of ventricular functional improvement in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy who received beta-blockade and the long-term effects of beta-blockade on ventricular mass and geometry in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7898065
To study the effects of the new vasodilating beta-blocking agent carvedilol on a variety of metabolic, hemodynamic, and ECG parameters of importance for the clinical outcome of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), we infused epinephrine (EPI) in healthy male volunteers on two separate occasions to serum concentrations of the same level reached in AMI. Before the EPI infusions, the volunteers were pretreated for 2 weeks with either carvedilol or placebo in randomized order. EPI caused significant decreases in serum levels: S-potassium (0.62 mM), S-magnesium (0.07 mM), S-calcium (0.12 mM), and S-phosphate (0.26 mM). After pretreatment with carvedilol, the decreases in S-calcium and S-phosphate were partly prevented and those in S-potassium and S-magnesium were completely inhibited. Short-term treatment with carvedilol significantly decreased S-insulin and serum C-peptide and significantly attenuated the EPI-induced increase in B-glucose observed after placebo. The EPI infusion significantly increased serum concentrations of free fatty acids and glycerol. These increases were significantly attenuated by carvedilol, whereas carvedilol had no significant affects of a variety of other lipid variables. EPI infusion caused a significant (p < 0.01) increase in systolic blood pressure (SBP) from 124.8 +/- 8.1 to 135.8 +/- 12.5 mm Hg and an increase in heart rate (HR) from 71.0 +/- 11.5 to 77.2 +/- 12.2, resulting in a significant increase in rate-pressure product (RPP). This estimate of cardiac work was significantly (p < 0.05) reduced by pretreatment with carvedilol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7900617
We have previously demonstrated the utility of time-series analysis applied to 72-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic data in patients with coronary artery disease. The present investigation applied time-series analysis to long-term (120-hour) ambulatory electrocardiographic data to determine the minimal period of monitoring needed (1) to detect periodicity of ischemia-related variables in ambulatory patients, (2) to describe auto-correlation and cross-correlation functions for heart rate and ischemia, and (3) to describe the effects of beta-adrenergic and calcium channel blockade on circadian characteristics and coupling of heart rate and ischemia. A double-blind crossover design was used to obtain 120-hour recordings during placebo, atenolol (200 mg/day), and diltiazem (360 mg/day) administration. During all three treatment periods, distinct circadian variation of heart rate was documented by autocorrelation and Fourier analysis. Ischemia did not exhibit clear periodicity as indexed by autocorrelation in any period; however, it was coupled to heart rate in all treatment periods as reflected in cross-correlation analysis. Although diltiazem did not quantitatively alter the circadian characteristics of heart rate or ischemia, atenolol produced a shift in the coupling between remaining ischemia and heart rate in time. Significant autocorrelation was detected for all treatment periods after 72 hours of monitoring, suggesting that 72 hours is the minimum amount of time needed for analysis of ambulatory electrocardiographic data in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7900628
This double-blind, randomized, long-term study investigated the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and the beta-blocker metoprolol on clinical, hemodynamic, angiographic, and neurohormonal parameters in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and moderate cardiac functional impairment (left ventricular ejection fraction [LVEF] 35% +/- 6%). After 12 months of treatment, a 12% reduction in 24-hour heart rate was observed in both groups (p < 0.05), whereas heart rate during exercise was reduced only in the metoprolol group. Echocardiographic fractional shortening increased (enalapril: 17% +/- 6% to 21% +/- 7%; metoprolol: 21% +/- 9% to 29% +/- 7%; both p < 0.05), as did the angiographic LVEF (enalapril: 35% +/- 7% to 43% +/- 12%, p = 0.1; metoprolol: 34% +/- 7% to 44% +/- 9%, p < 0.05), whereas ventricular volume decreased. Initially, both groups were comparable in terms of all parameters investigated. After 12 months fractional shortening was greater, and the heart rate at 50 W was lower in the beta-blocker group. At the doses used, the effect of the beta-blocker on dilated cardiomyopathy with moderate functional impairment was at least as great as that of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7903213
Tertatolol is a noncardioselective beta-blocker without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. In a preliminary 3-month open study, it was shown that T was devoid of any atherogenic effect since HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) and apoprotein levels did not change for 3 months of therapy. To investigate the long-term effects of tertatolol on the lipid profile and its safety in hypertensive patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), a 9-month, randomized, double-blind, parallel group study was carried out in 40 patients. Tertatolol 5 mg once daily was compared with metoprolol 200 mg once daily. If BP was not controlled after 2 months, a vasodilatator agent, dihydralazine, was added at the lowest dose required to control BP (diastolic BP < 90 mm Hg). Lipoprotein fractions and apoproteins were assayed before (M0) and after 2, 6 and 9 months of therapy. At the same occasions, peripheral arterial disease (PAD) was evaluated on exercise tests carried out on a treadmill and on the regional blood flow measured in the ankle arteries by the Doppler technique. Four patients were not eligible for analysis. In the tertatolol group, 1 patient with a normal BP, and 2 patients who dropped out, 1 because of persistent nausea and 1 because of personal reasons. In the metoprolol group, 1 patient refused to take dihydralazine. In the 35 fully documented patients, BP control was achieved in both groups. The mean reductions in supine systolic/diastolic BP were 31.4/14.6 and 34.7/17.1 mm Hg in the tertatolol and metoprolol groups, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7903214
Tertalolol is a noncardioselective beta-blocker, devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Its renal vasodilating properties have been demonstrated both in animals and in man. The beta-blocking activity of tertatolol was assessed on the reduction of heart rate at submaximal exercise. The oral dose of 5 mg was optimal, leading to a significant reduction of diastolic blood pressure throughout 24 h. The efficacy was confirmed in mid- and long-term studies. In mid-term, randomized controlled studies, versus beta-blockers, the antihypertensive efficacy of tertatolol 5 mg was comparable to that of acebutolol 400 mg but of earlier onset, and comparable to that of atenolol 100 mg. Its efficacy was confirmed in 3 long-term studies. In the first study, tertatolol 5 mg alone or combined with a diuretic and, if necessary, dihydralazine, controlled 93.6% of patients (supine DBP < 90 mm Hg). 72.7% of patients were controlled with tertatolol alone, 16.4% with tertatolol plus diuretic, and 4.5% with tertatolol plus diuretic and dihydralazine. In a second study, 88.5% of patients were controlled, 56.3% with tertatolol alone and 32.2% with tertatolol plus diuretic. In the third study, 88.8% of patients were controlled after 1 year treatment, 66.1% with tertatolol alone and 22.7% with tertatolol plus diuretic. The overall clinical safety was excellent: only 6.6% of the 2,706 patients treated for 1 year withdrew from the study because of side effects. In patients followed for 1 year, side effects were rare, transient and mostly of mild severity. Biochemical surveillance did not show any adverse metabolic effects of tertatolol. Conversely, in two long-term studies, creatinine and cholesterol levels decreased significantly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7903218
The renal vasodilatating properties of tertatolol demonstrated in animals have been confirmed in man. In a first study [Paillard et al., 1986], tertatolol (T) 5 mg and propranolol (Pr) 160 mg (SR) were given orally for 15 days to 2 groups of 9 patients with essential hypertension. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR), measured by inulin clearance and renal plasma flow (RPF) measured by PAH clearance increased in T group (+8.9%, p = 0.038 and + 13.0%, p = 0.007, respectively) and decreased in Pr group (-2.8%, NS and -13.4%, p < 0.001, respectively). Two clinical pharmacology studies [Leeman et al., 1986; Nitenberg et al., 1990] have shown specific and selective effects of tertatolol on the renal vasculature. In 8 hypertensive patients with chronic renal failure, the effects of tertatolol 5 mg were evaluated before and after 3 months of treatment on GFR using inulin clearance, and RPF, using PAH clearance [Hannedouche et al., 1991]. After 3 months of treatment, GFR and effective RPF increased significantly by 10 and 13%, respectively, whereas RVR decreased by 16% and the filtration fraction was unchanged. In summary, tertatolol 5 mg, contrasting with other beta-blockers, possesses a selective effect on the renal circulation beneficial to hypertensive patients. The mechanisms of this renal vasodilatation are not fully understood but might involve renal 5-HT1A receptor stimulation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7908532
1. The ideal drug treatment for atrial fibrillation will control resting heart rate, blunt exercise induced tachycardia whilst not exacerbating nocturnal bradycardia. Monotherapy with digoxin may not be ideal. We have compared the effect of combining digoxin (0.25 mg daily) with atenolol 50 mg and 100 mg or pindolol 5 mg twice daily and 15 mg twice daily in a cross-over randomised single-blind trial in eight symptomatic patients (six male; mean age 62 years) with poorly controlled atrial fibrillation. 2. Heart rate control was measured by 24 h ECG at baseline on digoxin therapy and after 2 weeks with each treatment. Symptom scores for breathlessness and palpitation were measured using visual analogue scales. 3. The addition of both beta-adrenoceptor blockers significantly reduced mean diurnal maximum heart rate from baseline (all P < 0.001 ANOVA). Atenolol at both doses caused a greater reduction than either dose of pindolol (P < 0.001 ANOVA). Nocturnal maximum heart rate was not significantly reduced from baseline by either beta-adrenoceptor blocker, but both doses of pindolol caused increases in nocturnal maximum heart rate compared with atenolol (P < 0.001 ANOVA). 4. Atenolol caused a reduction in diurnal minimum heart rate compared with baseline and caused a reduction in nocturnal minimum heart rate whereas pindolol caused an increase (P < 0.001 ANOVA). 5. Atenolol 100 mg caused longer nocturnal pauses compared with baseline but pindolol 15 mg twice daily reduced the number of nocturnal pauses > 1.5 s (P = 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7910028
Carvedilol is a new cardiovascular compound with the combined pharmacologic properties of nonselective beta-blockade and vasodilation. The aim of this study was to compare the safety and antihypertensive efficacy of 25 to 50 mg carvedilol once daily with 50 to 100 mg atenolol once daily in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. This was a multicenter study conducted in Europe. After a single-blind placebo run-in phase, 325 eligible patients with stable hypertension were randomized to receive 25 mg carvedilol once daily (161 patients) or 50 mg atenolol (164 patients) in a double-blind 8-week treatment phase. After 4 weeks, the dosage was doubled if there was inadequate response. The primary index of efficacy (response) was the reduction of mean sitting diastolic blood pressure to 90 mg Hg or less (normalized) or by at least 10 mm Hg from baseline. At each of three to six run-in phase visits and after 2, 4, and 8 weeks of treatment, sitting blood pressure and heart rate at trough were measured in triplicate, and body weight, adverse experiences, compliance, and use of concomitant medications were assessed. Laboratory tests, including fasting serum lipids, and electrocardiograms were also monitored during the trial. After 8 weeks of treatment, response rates in the carvedilol and atenolol treatment groups were 75% and 82%, respectively. Compared to baseline, the mean sitting blood pressure was significantly (P < .05) reduced by carvedilol from 165/104 mm Hg to 147/89 mm Hg. With atenolol, mean sitting blood pressure was significantly (P < .05) reduced from 167/104 mm Hg to 150/90 mm Hg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7910155
The anti-ischemic effect of 5 mg nebivolol o.i.d., a newly developed beta 1-selective adrenoceptor blocking drug with vasodilating properties, was compared with that of atenolol (100 mg o.i.d.) following a treatment period of 6 days. The study was performed in 24 patients with documented coronary artery disease and stable angina pectoris according to a double-blind randomized study, designed using conventional symptom-limited exercise testing. Exercise testing 3 h after the first dose showed a more marked ST-segment reduction by atenolol than by nebivolol (59% vs. 18%). ST-segment depression measured 24 h after administration of the penultimate dose was statistically significantly reduced by nebivolol (from 0.19 +/- 0.07 to 0.13 +/- 0.07 mV; P = 0.0059) but not by atenolol (from 0.17 +/- 0.06 to 0.14 +/- 0.10 mV; P = 0.0703). Approximately 3 h after the last dose, the reduction was comparable (45% and 38% by nebivolol and atenolol, respectively). Exercise duration, exercise time necessary to produce ST-segment depression by 0.1 mV and exercise time to the onset of angina were also prolonged following administration of both drugs. Thus, at steady-state single daily doses of 100 mg atenolol and 5 mg nebivolol were about equieffective when measured at time of maximal effect (i.e. 3 h after drug administration). However, duration of action with respect to the ST-segment depression seems to be slightly longer for nebivolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7911530
Various beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists have different effects on myocardial function. A clinical study was performed in 30 patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease and systemic hypertension to compare the effects of single intravenous doses of 0.15 mg/kg celiprolol (n = 16) (third generation beta-blocking agent) and metoprolol (n = 14) (second generation) on left ventricular diastolic function. Parameters derived from pressure, volume, flow, time intervals and their combination were used to characterise diastolic function. After celiprolol administration, parameters of diastolic myocardial function improve (dp/dtip-; relaxation time constant T1, peak filling rate PFR; first-third filling rate FF1/3 or diastolic wall stress-time integral Sigdiasc) or remain unchanged. In contrast, after metoprolol administration parameters of diastolic function seem to be deteriorated (dp/dtip-, T1; Sigdiasc). This indicates an improvement in myocardial relaxation and filling under the influence of celiprolol but not under metoprolol. The left shift of the pressure-volume loops after celiprolol (n = 13), in contrast to metoprolol, supports this interpretation. Celiprolol did not show any deterioration of diastolic function in patients with coronary heart disease and arterial hypertension under these acute conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7914122
The comparative efficacy of single and regular doses of the new Russian alpha- and beta-adrenoblocker proxodolol (Pd) and the beta-adrenoblocker propranolol (Pr) was studied in 12 male patients with stable angina on effort. The effect of single doses was evaluated with paired bicycle ergometries (PBE); that of course therapy was assessed with crossover randomized placebo-controlled tests of the two agents. During PBE, an adequate antianginal effect of Pd given in single doses of 0.04-0.08 g was seen in 66.5% and that of Pr used in the same doses was observed in 58.4% (p > 0.05). The exercise tolerance in patients given either agent in a single dose was similar. During 1-month course treatment with Pd in a mean daily dose of 186 +/- 24 mg, anginal episodes caused an over 3-fold reduction, which is similar to the clinical effect displayed by Pr, 182 +/- 25 mg/day. A single dose of Pd of 0.04 g produced a more pronounced chronotropic and antihypertensive effect than did the same dose of Pr. No differences were found during their course therapy. Pd was found to cause no orthostatic antihypertensive phenomenon.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7915221
Based on selected patient populations, several randomized trials have shown beta blockers to decrease mortality after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The purpose of this study was to describe the use of beta blockers in various subsets of patients admitted to Sahlgren's Hospital between February 15, 1986, and November 9, 1987, with AMI, and the relation of AMI to other risk indicators for death and to a 1-year mortality rate. Beta blockers, mainly metoprolol, were prescribed for 66% of all survivors at discharge. They were more frequently prescribed for younger patients and for those with a previous history of AMI and hypertension, but less frequently for those with a history of congestive heart failure and diabetes mellitus. Patients for whom beta blockers were not prescribed haa a 1-year mortality of 27% versus 11% for the rest (p < 0.001). Independent predictors of 1-year mortality after discharge were age (p < 0.001), history of hypertension (p < 0.001), prescription of beta blockers at discharge (p < 0.001), congestive heart failure during hospitalization (p < 0.001), and a history of AMI (p < 0.01). P values were corrected for baseline differences. Beta blockers were not prescribed at discharge for one-third of survivors after AMI. This group had a very high mortality during the first year. When simultaneously considering various risk indicators for death, prescription of beta blockers at discharge was associated with an increased rate of survival.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7915237
This double-blind, randomized parallel group study investigated the effect of 6 months beta-adrenoceptor antagonist therapy with either metoprolol (beta 1-selective without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity [ISA]) or epanolol (beta 1-selective with ISA) on markers of endogenous fibrinolysis in 20 patients with chronic stable angina receiving concurrent treatment with nifedipine. Neither drug had an effect on tissue-type plasminogen activator or plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1). A significant correlation between fasting insulin and PAI-1 has previously been described and was confirmed in this study. The group treated with metoprolol showed a significant rise in fasting insulin after 6 months with no change in PAI-1. This suggests that the previously described link between these two may not be causal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7915625
In an attempt to resolve the controversy concerning use of beta-adrenoceptor blockade in patients undergoing coronary artery revascularization, 40 consecutive patients with ischaemic heart disease receiving chronic beta-adrenergic blocking therapy (study group) were entered into a randomized trial and were compared with 40 patients receiving no beta-blocking therapy (control group). The postoperative requirement for positive inotropic agents between the two groups was compared. The clinical and operative characteristics of the two groups were similar. After surgery, 2% of patients in the study group required positive inotropic agents compared with 18% of those in the control group (P < 0.05). It is concluded that this difference resulted from an increase in density of beta 1-adrenergic receptors induced by beta-adrenergic blockade, and an increase in the level of catecholamines in the early postoperative period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7916004
This study investigated the effects of an osmotic release oral drug delivery system of metoprolol on the changes induced by cumulative doses of inhaled salbutamol on bronchomotor tone, skeletal muscle, and the circulatory system after single (day 1) and multiple (day 7) dosing in 18 hypertensive asthmatic patients (forced expiratory volume in 1 second > 50% predicted; diastolic blood pressure > 90 mm Hg). The patients were given 14/190 mg metoprolol, 100 mg atenolol, and placebo once daily for a 7-day period each in a randomized, double-blind, crossover design. At the estimated time of peak plasma concentrations, cumulative doses of salbutamol (12.5, 37.5, 112.5, 412.5, 812.5, and 1612.5 micrograms) were applied every 20 minutes. Specific airway conductance, finger tremor amplitude, heart rate, and blood pressure were registered at baseline and at each dose increment. The slopes of the salbutamol dose-response curves of specific airway conductance did not differ on day 1 (P > .05). On day 7, atenolol caused a shift of the dose-response curves of specific airway conductance to the right (P < .05), whereas metoprolol was indistinguishable from placebo (P > .05). The median cumulative salbutamol concentrations causing a 50% increase in specific airway conductance were 416 and 384 micrograms (days 1 and 7, respectively) for placebo, 594 and 444 micrograms for metoprolol, and 562 and 1419 micrograms for atenolol. The median cumulative salbutamol concentrations causing a 35% increase in tremor were 732 and 706 micrograms for placebo, 812 and 1213 micrograms for metoprolol, and 797 and 1323 micrograms for atenolol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7917158
We compared the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition with quinapril to those of selective beta-blockade with atenolol and calcium channel blockade with verapamil in 10 hypertensive subjects in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study. All antihypertensive agents reduced baseline mean arterial pressure equally and did not modify forearm vascular resistance compared to placebo. In response to sustained handgrip exercise, both quinapril and verapamil, but not atenolol, attenuated the pressor response. However, verapamil was associated with an exaggerated increase in forearm vascular resistance during handgrip, whereas quinapril did not alter this response compared to placebo. It is concluded that quinapril and verapamil reduce the pressor response during isometric exercise by quantitatively different effects on the vasoconstrictor response in, as well as outside of, skeletal muscles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7917794
The antianginal efficacy of a fixed combination of atenolol (50 mg) and nifedipine (20 mg) was compared with nifedipine (20 mg) alone; 102 patients experiencing three or more anginal attacks on their current monotherapy received each treatment twice daily for 3 weeks in a randomised, double-blind crossover trial. Both treatments reduced the weekly number of angina attacks compared with existing therapy; treatment with the fixed combination resulted in significantly fewer angina attacks per week than treatment with nifedipine alone. Also, when the fixed combination treatment followed the period of nifedipine therapy a further decrease in weekly angina attack rate was apparent. Comparison of individual patient response to each treatment showed that twice as many patients reported lower attack rates while on the fixed combination: 6 patients were withdrawn while receiving fixed combination compared with 10 patients on nifedipine alone. However, the incidence of commonly reported complaints was similar with both treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7923309
The purpose of this study was to determine whether patients whose blood pressure failed to normalize while receiving monotherapy with atenolol would experience further blood pressure lowering by adding the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor benazepril hydrochloride to their treatment regimen. Seventy-four of the original 127 patients treated with atenolol met the criteria for entry into the 4-week, double-blind phase of the study, in which either benazepril 10 mg twice daily (increased after 1 week, if necessary, to 20 mg twice daily) or placebo was added to atenolol. At end point, 46% of the benazepril group had achieved an excellent or good response (ie, diastolic blood pressure [DBP] < 90 mm Hg or a decrease of > or = 10 mm Hg below the baseline) compared with 14% of the placebo group (P < 0.01). The mean fall in DBP at end point was -5.6 mm Hg in the benazepril group and -3.7 mm Hg in the placebo group. Because six patients in the benazepril group experienced an increase of blood pressure that offset the fall observed in the responders, the difference in DBP response between the benazepril group and the placebo group was not statistically significant. We conclude that adding benazepril to the regimen of patients whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled while receiving atenolol monotherapy can produce an additional decrease in blood pressure in almost half the patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7923660
Functional benefit in heart failure due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy has been observed after beta-blockade, but improvement in survival has not been established in a large-scale randomized trial. This was the main objective of the Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study (CIBIS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7926346
The progression of diabetic nephropathy can be positively influenced by maintaining a low blood pressure level. This has been shown in studies with conventional antihypertensive treatment as well as with ACE inhibitors. Whether the latter group of drugs is more effective remains to be proven and was the aim of our study. In a prospective randomized study we compared the effects of ACE inhibition and beta-blockade on retarding progression of renal function in IDDM patients with an early stage of overt diabetic nephropathy. Twenty-nine patients were studied for 2 years, 15 were randomized for treatment with captopril and 14 for atenolol. Every 6 weeks blood pressure and urinary albumin and total protein excretion were measured. GFR was measured every 6 months as 51Cr-EDTA clearance. Baseline values for blood pressure, renal function and albuminuria were identical in the two groups. The effect of both drugs on blood pressure was not significantly different. In the captopril-treated patients MAP before and after 2 years was 110 +/- 3 (SEM) and 100 +/- 2 mm Hg, respectively and in the atenolol-treated patients 105 +/- 2 vs 101 +/- 2 mm Hg. Both drugs reduced albuminuria and total proteinuria to the same extent. With captopril albuminuria decreased from 1549 (989-2399) to 851 (537-1380) mg/24 h and proteinuria from 2.5 (1.6-3.8) to 1.2 (0.8-1.8) g/24 h. With atenolol albuminuria decreased from 933 (603-1445) to 676 (437-1047) mg/24 h and proteinuria from 1.5 (1.0-2.4) to 0.9 (0.6-1.5) g/24 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7929868
Central nervous system (CNS)-related symptoms and quality of life during treatment with controlled-release (CR) metoprolol and a standard formulation of atenolol were compared in a double-blind crossover study in 60 patients with mild to moderate hypertension. After a 4-week placebo run-in period, each beta 1-adrenoceptor blocker was administered at a dosage of 100 mg once daily for 6 weeks. Quality of life was assessed regularly during the active treatment phases by use of two standardized self-administered questionnaires, the minor symptom evaluation (MSE) profile, and the psychologic general well-being (PGWB) index. Both questionnaires have previously been shown to be effective in detecting CNS symptoms and changes in well being produced by beta-blockers. Blood pressure and heart rate were monitored to assess the antihypertensive efficacy of the two drugs. Metoprolol CR and atenolol produced equivalent, clinically effective reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressures measured 24 hours after administration. The drugs were found to exert similar effects on general well being, as assessed by the PGWB index, and there were no significant differences between the two treatments with regard to the three dimensions of the MSE profile, contentment, vitality, and sleep. Thus, at equivalent antihypertensive dosages, metoprolol CR and atenolol are clinically comparable with regard to the degree of CNS-related symptoms produced and effects on general well being. Because these agents differ markedly in lipophilicity, other factors, such as beta 1-selectivity/nonselectivity, may be more important determinants of whether these subjective symptoms occur during therapy with beta-blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7930255
This study examined the effects of metoprolol on left ventricular performance, efficiency, neurohormonal activation and myocardial respiratory quotient in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7942414
The management of atrial fibrillation is evolving in response to recently published data. Low-risk patients with new-onset atrial fibrillation may not need to be hospitalized. Beta blockers may be the most effective drugs for controlling the heart rate. When a patient does not respond to drug therapy, it is still appropriate to search for the cause of the arrhythmia and to use direct-current cardioversion. Clear evidence now exists that patients with chronic atrial fibrillation should be given anticoagulant drugs to reduce the risk of stroke. Antiarrhythmic drugs should be used cautiously, because they may cause life-threatening arrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7944835
Little information has been published on the impact of antihypertensive medications on quality of life in older persons. Particular concern has existed that lowering systolic blood pressure in older persons might have adverse consequences on cognition, mood, or leisure activities.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7950564
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7950612
To compare the ability of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and beta blockers to slow the development of end stage renal failure in non-diabetic patients with chronic renal failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7957538
Fifty patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension were randomized to receive either 20 mg fosinopril daily for 16 weeks or placebo for 4 weeks followed by 12 weeks of 50 mg atenolol daily. Prior to these 16 weeks there was a placebo wash-out period of 2-6 weeks. Blood pressure measurements, euglycaemic, hyperinsulinaemic glucose clamps, and intravenous glucose tolerance tests (IVGTT) were performed at baseline and after 4 and 16 weeks. Blood lipid status was evaluated at baseline and 16 weeks. The insulin sensitivity index (M/I) increased by 12% during the prolonged placebo period, and subsequently decreased by 12% during treatment with atenolol in that group. A post-hoc analysis of covariance indicated that the increase in insulin sensitivity during the initial 4 weeks may have been due to carry-over effects from previous antihypertensive treatment. Fosinopril increased glucose disappearance during IVGTT at 4 and 16 weeks (k values 1.46 and 1.33 vs 1.10 at baseline) but had no effect on insulin sensitivity. The change in insulin sensitivity and serum triglycerides during treatment with fosinopril was related to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in serum. In conclusion, carry-over effects from previous antihypertensive medication were indicated in this study, probably because of an insufficient wash-out period in many patients. Therefore, 4 weeks of placebo wash-out in all patients is advisable in this kind of investigation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7963104
The aim of our study was to determine a superior thrombolytic regimen from three: anistreplase (APSAC), front-loaded recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) or combination thrombolytic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7963199
To assess variability in the use of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTCA) in the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) cohort with incident coronary heart disease (CHD) by age, sex, and race.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7963426
A prospective randomised trial comparing propranolol and sclerotherapy to sclerotherapy alone was conducted over a 2-year follow up in a district hospital setting of unselected patients. Rebleeding and survival were analysed. Thirty-nine patients were randomised to propranolol plus sclerotherapy and 34 to sclerotherapy alone. The two groups were clinically comparable. There was no significant difference in the cumulative percent of patients free of rebleeding; 54% of the sclerotherapy group rebled compared to 52% of the group treated with propranolol plus sclerotherapy (Hazard ratio 1.09 (0.54-2.22) and p = 0.81, NS). Two-year actuarial survival was also not significantly different, with 77% of the propanolol plus sclerotherapy group surviving, compared to 74% of sclerotherapy alone (Hazard ratio 1.08 (0.35-2.22) and p = 0.79, NS). The mean time to eradication of varices was not significantly different between the two groups (propranolol plus sclerotherapy 222 days, sclerotherapy alone 243 days), nor did the rate of variceal recurrence differ (72.7 vs 72 days). This study did not show long-term improvement in rebleeding or survival using propranolol in addition to a regular sclerotherapy programme.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7973215
Interim analysis of accumulating data in a clinical trial is now an established practice for ethical and scientific reasons. Repeatedly testing interim data can inflate false positive error rates if not handled appropriately. Group sequential methods are a commonly used frequentist approach to control this error rate. Motivated by experience of clinical trials, the alpha spending function is one way to implement group sequential boundaries that control the type I error rate while allowing flexibility in how many interim analyses are to be conducted and at what times. In this paper, we review the alpha spending function approach, and detail its applicability to a variety of commonly used statistical procedures, including survival and longitudinal methods.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7975357
The authors assessed in 20 subjects with mild or medium severe arterial hypertension basal and stimulated values of plasma renin activity (PRA) and aldosterone before onset of treatment and after 6-week therapy with enalapril (ENAP KRKA) or metoprolol (Vasocardin Slovakofarma). PRA and aldosterone secretion was stimulated by a vertical position and by administration of 40 mg furosemide by the i.v. This test proved suitable for assessment of secondary arterial hypertension in different forms of primary hyperaldosteronism and for expressing suspicion of renovascular hypertension and hypertension with affection of the renal arteries resp. Based on PRA levels, arterial hypertension can be divided into normorenin, high-renin and low-renin hypertension. This classification is, however, of no value for selection of treatment and the prognosis of hypertension. Each level of PRA can be associated with three different aldosterone levels. PRA and aldosterone did not correlate with urinary K, Na excretion nor with blood pressure. During treatment with ACE inhibitor PRA rose while basal as well as stimulated aldosterone levels declined. After administration of betablockers basal as well as stimulated PRA and aldosterone levels declined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7976233
The prophylactic effect of tolfenamic acid and propranolol was studied in a randomized double-blind cross-over trial of 76 patients with migraine with or without aura. After a 4-week run-in period patients were randomly allocated to treatment with either tolfenamic acid 100 mg three times daily or propranolol 40 mg three times daily for 12 weeks. After a placebo wash-out period of 4 weeks the patients got the alternative drug for 12 weeks; 56 patients completed the study. Both drugs significantly reduced migraine attacks as judged from the reduction in the efficacy parameters (migraine hours, migraine days, and migraine intensity) in the treatment periods compared with the run-in period. No statistical significant difference in any efficacy parameter was found between the two drugs (level 2 alpha = 0.05, alpha = 0.10). The adverse effects showed no statistical difference in frequency between the 2 treatments. Twenty patients discontinued the study: 12 patients on propranolol and 8 patients on tolfenamic acid. Side effects were the cause of premature discontinuation of study medicine in 9 patients during propranolol treatment (dizziness, fatigue, and fall in blood pressure) and in 5 patients during tolfenamic acid treatment (gastrointestinal symptoms).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7977065
Recent studies strongly support the prognostic importance of transient silent ischemia. Because patients with silent ischemia are at higher risk of a cardiac event, they are likely to benefit not only from control of symptoms, but also from treatment directed at prevention of ischemia. The efficacy of controlled-release metoprolol 200 mg once daily and diltiazem 60 mg 4 times daily was assessed in a randomized, double-blind, crossover study in 32 patients with proven coronary artery disease, predominantly asymptomatic myocardial ischemia, positive bicycle exercise test results, and > or = 5 minutes of asymptomatic ST-segment depression on a 24-hour screening ambulatory electrocardiogram (ECG). At the beginning and at the end of both 3-week treatment periods, an exercise test was performed and a 72-hour ambulatory ECG was recorded. Both active treatment periods were preceded by a 2-week placebo phase. Both treatments effectively reduced and postponed exercise-induced ST depression and reduced the total ischemic integral on the ambulatory ECG. Only metoprolol significantly reduced the mean number of ischemic episodes (54%, p = 0.0003, vs 31% for diltiazem, p = NS) and the mean duration of ischemia (51%, p = 0.012, vs 27% for diltiazem, p = NS) compared with baseline values. Metoprolol strongly blunted the morning and afternoon peak in the circadian distribution of ischemia, whereas diltiazem did not change the circadian distribution of ischemia at all.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7977090
Coronary artery disease is an increasingly common medical problem in the elderly, and relatively few studies investigating drug therapy focus on this population. To assess the efficacy and safety of the calcium channel blocker, felodipine, and isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN), as adjunct to optimal beta-blocker therapy in elderly patients, a placebo-controlled, double-blind study was conducted in 46 patients, aged between 65 and 80 years, with documented stress-induced angina pectoris and myocardial ischemia. With use of a latin-square design, with 3 periods of 4 weeks each, exercise testing was performed after each period. Felodipine, 5 mg once daily, significantly improved both time to ischemic threshold and pain threshold (p = 0.02 and p = 0.003, respectively, vs placebo), and tended to increase total exercise time (p = 0.06 vs placebo). In contrast, ISMN, 20 mg twice daily, did not significantly affect these parameters. Comparison of the 2 active treatment arms showed that, overall, felodipine was more effective than ISMN, with a statistically significant difference for time to ischemic threshold (p = 0.02). With regard to safety, felodipine was also better tolerated than ISMN, which led to more patients discontinuing study medication with ISMN (p < 0.05 between ISMN and felodipine). It is concluded that in elderly patients who are treated with optimal beta blockade, felodipine, but not ISMN, leads to an additional significant reduction in ischemic parameters during exercise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7979639
Although beta-adrenoceptor antagonists improve morbidity and mortality in patients with portal hypertension associated with cirrhosis, this has not been demonstrated in non-cirrhotic patients. In the present, double-blind, 24-month, prospective study of patients with endoscopically-proven varices and ultrasonographically-confirmed hepatic fibrosis, the effects of propranolol 160 mg LA and placebo on the incidence of rebleeding and mortality were compared in 82 patients with portal hypertension secondary to schistosomiasis. The results, analysed on intention-to-treat basis, indicated a reduction in rebleeding (median time to rebleeding 589 days for propanol v. 252 days for placebo; P < 0.02) and increased survival in the propranolol-treated patients (three deaths v. seven deaths on placebo; P < 0.02). Fifteen patients withdrew from the propranolol group and 18 from the placebo group. A positive prognostic indicator was a large portal vein diameter whereas a small liver size indicated a negative outcome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7982651
The effect on kidney function, vasoactive systems and ascites outcome of long-term treatment with propranolol plus isosorbide-5-mononitrate, a combined therapy proven more effective than propranolol alone in decreasing portal pressure in the cirrhotic patient, is unknown. Thirty cirrhotic patients who survived acute variceal bleeding and were treated with propranolol plus isosorbide-5-mononitrate were studied. Portal and systemic hemodynamics (n = 15), inulin clearance, free water clearance, plasma renin activity, aldosterone concentration and prostaglandin E2 excretion (n = 20) were measured before and after 3 mo of treatment. In addition, data on ascites outcome in the entire series after a mean follow-up of 9.6 mo were compared with those of 30 patients undergoing elective sclerotherapy and with those of 30 patients treated with propranolol alone matched for age, sex, presence of ascites, Child-Pugh class and mean follow-up length included in other randomized controlled trials. Combined therapy significantly decreased the hepatic venous pressure gradient and azygos blood flow. In addition, no changes in inulin clearance, free water clearance, plasma renin activity, aldosterone concentration and prostaglandin E2 excretion occurred, despite a mild decrease in mean arterial pressure. Moreover, no differences among the three groups of patients studied in ascites outcome were found. These results suggest that long-term treatment with propranolol plus isosorbide-5-mononitrate does not impair kidney function, vasoactive systems or ascites outcome in cirrhotic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7988629
Diltiazem CR tablets 120 mg b.i.d. for 1 week were compared with plain tablets 60 mg q.i.d. in 13 healthy male volunteers in a study of pharmacokinetic variables. Their antianginal efficacy was also compared in 23 patients with stable angina pectoris who were already on metoprolol. Both studies were of randomised, cross over design, and the clinical study was double blind. The pharmacokinetic variables of the two formulations were very similar except for the longer tmax of 4.4 h for diltiazem CR in comparison to 2.9 h for the plain tablets. The mean relative bioavailability of diltiazem CR in comparison with plain tablets was 1.14. The clinical study showed that after four weeks on diltiazem CR 120 mg b.i.d. or diltiazem plain tablets 60 mg q.i.d. in addition to metoprolol, there were significant decreases in weekly anginal attacks from 11 to 5 attacks/week, the number of nitroglycerin tablets consumed from 6 to 3 tablets/week, and an increase in the maximum workload from 116 to 126 and 123 W for diltiazem CR and plain diltiazem tablets, respectively, as compared to placebo. Five of the patients were angina free during diltiazem treatment. No difference in anti-anginal efficacy between the two preparations was seen. It was concluded that CR 120 mg b.i.d. appears bioequivalent to plain diltiazem tablets 60 mg q.i.d.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7990246
To estimate morbidity and mortality benefits of drug therapy for hypertensive elderly subjects, compare these benefits with effects in younger subjects, and provide a framework for generalizing results derived from trials to actual patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7992988
To compare and contrast the effects of antihypertensive agents on serum lipids and blood pressure in different patient populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7994448
Aspirin at low doses is used as an inhibitor of platelet aggregation and is frequently administered to essential hypertensive patients with arterial thrombotic complications. However, it is unknown whether aspirin can modify blood pressure values either in treated or untreated hypertensive patients, as described for other non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Thus 30 patients. 10 with mild uncomplicated and untreated essential hypertension, 10 with essential hypertension under chronic treatment with captopril, 50 mg bid, and 10 with essential hypertension under chronic treatment with atenolol, 100 mg oid, received aspirin, 100 mg oid, and the corresponding placebo for one month, according to a double blind randomized cross-over design. At the end of each treatment, blood pressure, heart rate, generated serum thromboxane B2 and urinary excretion of thromboxane B2 and 6 keto prostaglandin F1 alpha and plasma renin activity were measured. Both in treated and untreated essential hypertensive patients, aspirin administration did not affect blood pressure, heart rate and urinary 6 keto prostaglandin F1 alpha, while it significantly reduced serum and urinary excretion of thromboxane B2 and plasma renin activity. In conclusion, while the present data confirm that low doses of aspirin selectively inhibit thromboxane B2 synthesis, they indicate that aspirin at 100 mg oid can be administered to treated and untreated essential hypertensive patients without any harmful effect on blood pressure values.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8004839
In the final analysis of this study at Week 26, 26% of the patients randomized to receive amlodipine attained blood pressure control with amlodipine alone compared with 33% of the patients allocated to hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). Neither amlodipine nor HCTZ produced clinically significant changes in pulse rate or in the electrocardiogram. Amlodipine treatment did not appear to produce clinically significant changes in blood lipids; HCTZ, however, produced an increase in total plasma cholesterol (delta 22.9 +/- 8.6 mg/dl). The incidence of side effects and the rate of patient withdrawal in the amlodipine and HCTZ groups were comparable. As expected, HCTZ therapy caused well-recognized biochemical alterations in cholesterol and potassium levels, whereas amlodipine was metabolically neutral.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8004841
The 24-h blood pressure control of bisoprolol, a new beta-selective, beta-blocking agent, was studied in 240 mild to moderate hypertensive patients in this 4-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. A once-daily dosing schedule was evaluated by comparing bisoprolol's antihypertensive effectivness and safety at 24 h postdose and 3 h postdose, the latter time intended to correspond to peak effectiveness. Results from this trial demonstrated the antihypertensive effectiveness of once-daily bisprolol at doses ranging from 5-20 mg. Mean reductions from baseline diastolic blood pressure, measured 24 h postdose, were 6.3, 8.8, and 10.1 mmHg for patients receiving bisoprolol 5, 10, and 20 mg, respectively, compared with 1.6 mmHg for placebo-treated patients (p < 0.01); mean reductions from baseline systolic blood pressure for the bisoprolol groups were 8.6, 8.6, and 10.9 mmHg, respectively, versus 3.3 mmHg for placebo (p < or = 0.01); and mean reductions from baseline heart rate for the bisoprolol groups were 5.1, 7.1, and 10.2 beats/min, respectively, compared with a 0.9 beats/min increase in heart rate for the placebo group (p < 0.01). The response rates for bisoprolol-treated patients ranged from 47 to 70% compared with 18% for patients on placebo (p < 0.01). Antihypertensive effects were dose-related and sustained over the 24-h dosing interval. Near maximal antihypertensive effects were achieved within 1 week of initiation of therapy with bisoprolol and were sustained over the course of the trial.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8005121
The pharmacological treatment, mainly based on diuretics, of isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) has recently been shown to reduce the risk of stroke and coronary heart disease in the elderly. The purpose of this study was to compare the antihypertensive effect and tolerability of different drug regimens in elderly subjects with ISH (systolic blood pressure--SBP-- > or = 160 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure--DBP-- < 90 mmHg). A multicentre, randomized, controlled open trial was planned in the general practice setting. Four widely used treatment schedules were tested: hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg plus amiloride 2.5 mg (H+Am), nifedipine slow release 20 mg (N), atenolol 50 mg (At) and atenolol 25 mg plus chlorthalidone 6.25 mg (At+C). After a baseline evaluation, 308 patients (76.3% female, mean age 75.3 +/- 7.1 years) were randomized and followed up for 6 months. After 3 months the drug dosage was doubled if the systolic blood pressure goal (SBP < 160 mmHg and SBP reduction of at least 20 mmHg) had not been reached. Ninety-four subjects (30.5%) presented contraindications to beta-blockers. At the 3rd- and 6th-month visits all treatment groups, except At, showed a significant reduction in SBP compared to the control group; DBP showed no significant reduction in any group at any time. At the end of the follow-up the percentage of hypertensives who had reached the BP goal was 14.6% in the control group, 52.9% in H+Am, 54.8% in N, 28.6% in At and 52.2% in At+C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8006249
The primary objectives of the Asymptomatic Cardiac Ischemia Pilot were 1) to compare the 12-week efficacy of three treatment strategies to suppress cardiac ischemia, and 2) to assess the feasibility of a prognosis trial in patients with asymptomatic cardiac ischemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8006252
The Asymptomatic Cardiac Ischemia Pilot (ACIP) study was initiated to determine the feasibility of a large trial in evaluating the effects of treatment of ischemia on outcome (mortality and myocardial infarction). The study was designed to examine the effects of medical treatment to control angina compared with treatment strategies guided by ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) ischemia or coronary anatomy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8006923
The central role of insulin resistance in patients with essential hypertension was the impetus for the present study, in which carbohydrate and lipid metabolism were examined before and after three months treatment with doxazosin (n = 14) and atenolol (n = 15). After completion of a randomised parallel group trial, the study was extended in a subgroup of the patients who continued treatment with doxazosin for a further nine months (n = 18). Insulin sensitivity was measured with the euglycemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp. Blood glucose and plasma insulin were analysed in the fasting state and during an intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT). Lipoprotein fractions were analysed in serum. After three months, SBP and DBP in the standing position decreased to the same extent after the two drugs whereas the decrease in supine SBP did not reach statistical significance in the doxazosin group. Doxazosin, in contrast to atenolol, decreased serum triglycerides (-17%, P < 0.04) by lowering the VLDL and LDL fractions. Serum cholesterol fell after doxazosin (-7%, P < 0.02) but not after atenolol. The effects of doxazosin on serum lipids remained the same during the long-term follow-up. At three months neither drug had significantly affected variables reflecting insulin sensitivity although atenolol tended to decrease the insulin sensitivity index (-17%, P = 0.08). After 12 months the doxazosin group showed a significant increase in the insulin sensitivity index and a significant decrease in both basal plasma insulin and in the late insulin response at IVGTT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8012879
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8013509
Dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography is used for the non-invasive diagnosis of coronary artery disease, but stress test results may be influenced by beta-blockers. The aim of this study was to assess if the addition of atropine can compensate for the presence of beta-blockers in dobutamine stress echocardiography. Twenty-six patients referred for evaluation of chest pain were studied twice, on and off metoprolol 100 mg b.i.d. (in random order sequence) with a wash-out period of at least 48 h. Dobutamine stress echocardiography was performed using up to 40 micrograms.kg-1.min-1, followed, if necessary, by the addition of atropine to achieve 85% of the age-predicted maximal heart rate, unless symptoms or markers of ischaemia appeared. Atropine was given to patients on beta-blockers more often [(22/26) vs (6/26)] than to those off beta-blockers (P < 0.001). Heart rate at every stage of the test was lower on beta-blockers. Chest pain occurred in patients on beta-blockers significantly less than in those off beta-blockers (8% vs 46%), and the addition of atropine made no significant difference (31% vs 46%). During dobutamine stress, new wall motion abnormalities occurred in three patients on beta-blockers (12%); this number increased to 15 after the addition of atropine (57%). New or worsened wall motion abnormalities occurred in 12 patients (46%) off beta-blockers with dobutamine alone and in 14 patients after adding atropine (53%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8016665
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8018001
The safety and effectiveness of different dosages and combinations of antihypertensive agents can be efficiently studied using a multifactorial trial design. In consultation with the Cardio-Renal Division of the Food and Drug Administration, we conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3 x 4 factorial trial of bisoprolol, a beta 1-selective adrenergic blocking agent, and hydrochlorothiazide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8018004
The recently completed Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 4 Study compared three thrombolytic treatment regimens for acute myocardial infarction. The treatment arms included front-loaded recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA), anistreplase (APSAC), or both, in conjunction with an intravenous bolus of 5000 U of heparin, followed by 1000 U/h. To facilitate anticoagulation, a heparin nomogram was developed to maintain the therapeutic activated partial thromboplastin time at 1 1/2 to 2 times the control value.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8018020
Antihypertensive drugs are commonly associated with adverse side effects in both clinical and laboratory studies. We investigated the sexual sequelae of several major classes of antihypertensive drugs (e.g., beta blockers, central alpha agonists, diuretics) in normal males and in hypertensive patients. We compared the effects of four widely used agents (methyldopa, propranolol, atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide-triamterene) and placebo, in a selected sample of 21 sexually dysfunctional male hypertensives, 13 of whom completed all five phases of the study. Each study drug was administered for a 1-month treatment period, followed by a 2-week, single-blind washout phase, according to a randomized, Latin square crossover design. Dependent variables for the study included a broad range of hormonal, NPT, and self-report measures of sexual response. Results indicated a lack of consistent drug effects on measures of sexual response, although more frequent sexual and nonsexual side effects were observed with methyldopa and propranolol. As in our previous studies, age was negatively correlated with both hormonal and NPT measures, whereas changes in blood pressure were not significantly related to sexual function scores. Results do not support the hypothesis that sexually dysfunctional males are at greater risk for adverse sexual sequelae when treated with centrally active agents or diuretics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8021578
To compare intrabrachial blood pressure (I-BP) with simultaneously measured contralateral auscultatory (A-)BP in hypertensive and normotensive subjects. The question was whether differences between direct and indirect BP are influenced by the BP levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8021907
The newly developed antihypertensive drugs, the long-acting beta-blocker propranolol and the sustained release calcium antagonist verapamil, are compared in their antihypertensive, platelet function, rheological properties and metabolic effects. The trial was a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled cross-over study. Thirty patients with mild to moderate hypertension received propranolol (40-120 mg) or verapamil (80-200 mg) once daily in two separate ten week courses. After ten weeks treatment both drugs had significantly reduced both SBP and DBP. Beta-thromboglobulin (beta-TG) concentration, reflecting the status of platelet activation in vivo, was significantly decreased after propranolol (129.6 +/- 13.5 vs. 77.9 +/- 8.6 ng/ml) and verapamil (129.6 +/- 13.5 vs. 90.7 +/- 10.1 ng/ml) treatments while platelet aggregation induced by ADP, collagen, arachidonic acid or adrenaline and the production of thromboxane B2 (TXB2), 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha (6-keto-PGF1 alpha) and platelet cyclic 3'-5' adenosine monophosphate (C-AMP) concentration were not affected. Significant alterations in rheological parameters such as plasma and whole blood viscosity, fibrinogen level and red cell deformability were not found. Higher cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels were observed after propranolol treatment but not in verapamil treatment. Side-effects were mild, tolerated and no patient had to be withdrawn from the study. In conclusion, propranolol and verapamil are generally effective antihypertensive as well as rheologically safe drugs. Compared with the metabolic effect on serum lipid, verapamil may be a better choice. Both drugs possess the tendency to inhibit platelet properties which is desirable in hypertension treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8023668
Hypertension and cerebral hyperperfusion are often seen in the immediate postoperative period after craniotomy for supratentorial tumours. Metoprolol is known to attenuate the postoperative hypertensive response after hypotensive anaesthesia and this study was carried out to evaluate the effect of metoprolol on cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) before extubation and cerebral arteriovenous oxygen content difference (AVDO2), mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), PaO2 and PaCO2 in a 180-min period after extubation. Twenty patients anaesthetized with thiopentone, fentanyl, nitrous oxide 67%, and halothane 0.5% were randomized to receive intravenous metoprolol or placebo at the end of the peroperative period. There were no significant differences in CBF- and CMRO2 values between the two groups. In the period between closure of the dura and 5 min after extubation, an increase in MABP was observed in the control group (P < 0.05), but not in the metoprolol group. During the same period a decrease in AVDO2 was observed in both groups (P < 0.05); during the next 10 min an increase was observed, but with no difference in AVDO2 values between the groups. A higher level of PaO2 in the metoprolol group was observed in the postoperative period. These findings suggest that peroperative treatment with metoprolol reduces postoperative MABP but does not influence the cerebral blood flow and metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8031548
The impact of antihypertensive medications on the quality of life of elderly hypertensive women has rarely been systematically evaluated in large clinical trials using drugs from the new generations of pharmaceutic preparations. We carried out a multicenter, randomized double-blind clinical trial with 309 hypertensive women aged 60 to 80 years to assess effects of atenolol, enalapril, and isradipine on measures of quality of life over a 22-week period. The patients had mild to moderate hypertension. Hydrochlorothiazide was added to treatment if monotherapy was inadequate in lowering blood pressure. At the conclusion of the trial the three drug groups did not differ in degree of reduction of diastolic blood pressure or in supplementation with hydrochlorothiazide. Over the 22-week trial, linear trend analysis showed no differences between the treatment groups in change from baseline on quality of life measures of well-being, physical status, emotional status, cognitive functioning, and social role participation. Regarding each of 33 physical side effects over the 22 weeks, we found no general difference between atenolol, enalapril, and isradipine groups on measures of change in distress over symptoms except for enalapril patients who worsened in distress over cough (P = .001) and atenolol patients who worsened in distress over dry mouth (P = .014). Centering on three medications that are relatively new additions to the armamentarium for blood pressure control, the findings underline the increasing opportunities for the physician to select drugs that can control blood pressure while maintaining the quality of life of elderly hypertensive women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8033506
1. The physiological effects of the acute administration of a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy were assessed by performing post-exercise Doppler-echocardiography study. Eleven patients and six control subjects were studied. According to a double-blind randomized protocol, 5 mg of metoprolol or placebo was administered before cycloergometer exercise. 2. In patients, after metoprolol, a significant decrease in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, as well as in peak aortic acceleration and cardiac output, was observed 2 min after exercise. Left ventricular end-diastolic diameter did not change from baseline values either after placebo or metoprolol. In normal subjects, as compared with placebo, a decrease in heart rate and peak aortic acceleration was observed after metoprolol, whereas systolic blood pressure did not change. A similar increase in cardiac output occurred after metoprolol, as compared with placebo, associated with an increase in left ventricular end-diastolic diameter and stroke volume. 3. Post-exercise Doppler echocardiography is a means of assessing haemodynamic changes occurring during exercise in patients with congestive heart failure. Although acute metoprolol administration does not provide beneficial haemodynamic effects, a decrease in the energy requirements of the heart and a faster recovery after exercise may participate in the long-term beneficial action of beta-adrenoceptor antagonists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8033771
In a prospective single-blind comparative trial, sixty newly diagnosed mild to moderate hypertensives were randomly assigned to either propranolol or hydroflumethiazide monotherapy. Baseline fasting serum glucose lipid profiles, serum uric acid and potassium levels, were determined at the beginning of the trial. Repeat levels were determined at completion of twelve weeks of treatment. Propranolol treatment significantly reduced HDL-cholesterol (p < 0.02) and increased both VLDL and total serum triglycerides (p < 0.01). Hydroflumethiazide significantly increased total and LDL-chole-sterol, fasting serum glucose and uric acid levels (p < 0.01); potassium levels were significantly lowered (p < 0.01). Treatment with either propranolol or hydroflumethiazide is associated with significant metabolic side-effects which require regular monitoring and intervention as appropriate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8037411
A meta-analysis of randomized trials studying the effect of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) on blood pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8039850
A randomized double-blind trial comparing the alpha-adrenergic blocker doxazosin and the beta-adrenergic blocker atenolol was completed by 131 patients with mild to moderate hypertension. Blood pressure and fasting blood lipids were determined at baseline and 4, 12, and 24 weeks of treatment. At entry, plasma lipids and lipoproteins were similar in those patients randomized to doxazosin or atenolol. After 24 weeks of treatment with atenolol, there were significant (P < .05) decreases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and increases in triglycerides and very-low-density triglycerides (VLDL-T). In contrast, doxazosin was associated with significant (P < .05) increases in HDL-C and decreases in triglycerides and VLDL-T. There were no significant differences in HDL apolipoprotein (apo) A-I or low-density lipoprotein apoB between the drugs, but atenolol decreased the ratio of HDL-C to apoA-I, and doxazosin increased this ratio, differences that were statistically significant (P < .002). Neither apoA-I nor apoB concentration at baseline nor apoE phenotype was predictive of the lipid responses during antihypertensive treatment with either drug. Thus, there are significant favorable changes in HDL-C, total triglycerides, and VLDL-T between patients with mild to moderate hypertension and normal plasma lipids when treated with the alpha-blocker doxazosin compared with the beta-blocker atenolol. Plasma lipid or apo concentrations were not predictive of their lipid response during antihypertensive therapy with either of these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8042331
The management of children with portal hypertension (PH) has substantially changed owing to the good results and broader application of both endoscopic sclerotherapy and orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Since the introduction of sclerotherapy for the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices, the number of surgical procedures has sharply decreased. Until the early 1980s, however, the treatment of choice of bleeding esophageal varices was based on different variations of two main types of open surgery: devacularization and transection operations and portosystemic shunts. The experience with nonshunt procedures is limited in the pediatric population. Literature reports from the last 25 years have emphasized a number of restrictions related to portosystemic shunts in small subjects. However, portosystemic shunts, selective or not, can be performed even in very young subjects with high rates of success. From 1974 to 1984 the distal splenorenal shunt (DSRS) was the procedure of choice for the treatment of children with variceal bleeding in our institution. Forty-two children underwent DSRS during this period. Since 1985, when endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy (EVS) replaced DSRS as the first therapeutic option in our service, this shunt has been performed in only 8 children in whom EVS has failed, none of them during the last 2 years. In this cohort of 50 cases of DSRS, the shunt patency has increased from 71% in the first 7 patients to 95% thereafter. There has been no perioperative mortality. From 1985 to April 1993, 107 children were submitted to EVS sessions for the treatment of esophageal varices bleeding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8044945
Detection of asymptomatic ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease has been associated with increased risk for adverse outcome, but treatment of patients with asymptomatic ischemia remains controversial. Accordingly, the purpose of this study was to determine if treatment reduces adverse outcome in patients with daily life ischemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8045844
Residence at high altitude has been associated with elevation in systemic arterial blood pressure, but the time course has been little studied and the mechanism is unknown. Because plasma epinephrine (E) and norepinephrine (NE) also increase at altitude, we hypothesized that heightened sympathoadrenal activity may cause increased arterial pressure. We measured ambulatory blood pressure by cuff monitor in relation to 24-h urinary excretion of E and NE at sea level and during 3 wk of residence at 4,300 m (Pikes Peak, CO) in 11 healthy men. In five subjects taking placebo, arterial pressure progressively increased at 4,300 m from 82 +/- 1 (SE) mmHg at sea level to 88 +/- 3 on day 2, 91 +/- 3 on day 8, and 97 +/- 6 on day 17. In six subjects, propranolol (240 mg/day) decreased pressure from 85 +/- 4 to 77 +/- 1 mmHg at sea level but did not prevent sustained increase in pressure at 4,300 m (84 +/- 1, 81 +/- 1, and 85 +/- 3 mmHg on days 2, 8, and 17, respectively). Compared with the placebo group, blood pressure did not increase further over the initial elevation observed on day 2 in the propranolol group. There was interindividual variability in the blood pressure responses in both groups, with some subjects demonstrating a more marked increase in blood pressure. Urinary excretion of NE increased concomitantly with pressure at altitude in both groups, with a greater rise in the placebo group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8046193
Facilitate primary care physicians' compliance with recommended standards of care for late life depression by reducing barriers to recognition and treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8053282
An open randomized study was conducted in mild to moderate hypertensive patients to evaluate, over a 3 months treatment period, the efficacy and tolerability of carvedilol 25 mg OD and to compare, in case of insufficient results with 25 mg, the efficacy and tolerance of carvedilol 50 mg and carvedilol 25 mg coadministered with diuretics. Mean office blood pressure (sitting) of the 91 patients who completed the study according to the protocol was reduced from 161/100 to 147/91 mm Hg after 4 weeks of treatment carvedilol 25 mg OD. Continuation of carvedilol 25 mg produced no further reduction in blood pressure. Increasing carvedilol to 50 mg OD or addition of diuretics further reduced blood pressure. Ambulatory blood pressure measurements showed a significant reduction in both SBP and DBP after 3 months treatment in the three groups, as well as with respect to the circadian profile of blood pressure and heart rate. Large differences between ambulatory and office blood pressure were observed: 37% of the patients diagnosed as mild to moderate hypertensives according to office blood pressure before treatment had mean daytime DBP < 90 mm Hg and 39% mean daytime SBP < 140 mm Hg. Twenty-eight percent of the patients experienced adverse events; they occurred mainly at the beginning of treatment; less than 5% of participants withdrew due to adverse events. The most frequent adverse events were fatigue, vertigo and asthenia. This study showed that carvedilol is safe and effective in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension and that there is a high prevalence (nearly 40%) of low ambulatory blood pressure means in a population labelled as mild to moderate hypertensive.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8058230
To compare the effects of treatment with nicardipine and metoprolol in patients with hypertension during pregnancy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8061854
The present study was to investigate the effect of four different antihypertensive medications [atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), isradipine and spirapril] on the blood pressure and metabolic state of 18 patients with obstructive sleep apnoea. All patients received each of the drugs for a period of 8 weeks according to a randomized crossover design. Although all of the medications decreased systolic blood pressure (SBP), only spirapril decreased SBP significantly (17 +/- 15 mmHg; p < 0.001). All of the medications decreased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) significantly, but spirapril produced the greatest reduction (5-8 vs 10 mmHg, respectively). Both HCTZ and isradipine increased fasting serum total cholesterol concentration (0.3 +/- 0.5 and 0.3 +/- 0.4 mmol/l, respectively; p < 0.05). Atenolol decreased fasting serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol concentration significantly (0.12 +/- 0.15 mmol/l; p < 0.01). Both HCTZ and isradipine increased fasting serum glucose concentration significantly (0.7 +/- 0.8 mmol/l and 0.6 +/- 0.7 mmol/l, respectively; p < 0.01). No significant effect on serum lipid and glucose levels was observed with spirapril. On the basis of these results, spirapril was the best medication for hypertensive patients with obstructive sleep apnoea.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8062314
This study evaluated the effect of beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents (beta-blockers) with or without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity on the 24-hour blood pressure profile of 15 untreated patients with essential hypertension. After a 4-week run-in period, subjects were randomly assigned to an 8-week treatment period of once-daily carteolol (15 mg/d) or atenolol (50 mg/d). The groups were crossed over at week 8. Office blood pressure and heart rate were recorded every 2 weeks and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring was performed immediately preceding and at the conclusion of each period. Both drugs significantly reduced (P < 0.01) office blood pressure and heart rate throughout the two treatment periods. The 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring at 0.5- and 1-hour intervals revealed that systolic blood pressure in 2 of 8 sleeping hours and diastolic blood pressure in 4 of 8 sleeping hours were significantly higher (P < 0.05) after carteolol treatment than after atenolol treatment. The average values for both daytime and nighttime blood pressures, however, were significantly lower at the end of both periods. Although atenolol lowered heart rate throughout the 24-hour period, there was a smaller reduction in heart rate with carteolol than with atenolol during daytime (-5.4 +/- 4.9 beats/min vs -12.7 +/- 6.6 beats/min, P < 0.005, respectively). Heart rate increased during nighttime (P < 0.02) and was significantly greater than with atenolol treatment (5.0 +/- 7.2 beats/min vs -5.7 +/- 8.0 beats/min, P < 0.001, respectively). These results suggest that the different effects of the two beta-blockers on heart rate and nighttime blood pressure may be attributed to the presence or absence of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8066478
The goal in the management of patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension is delivery of infants who will thrive physically and mentally without compromising maternal health in the process. Many therapeutic approaches have been recommended; however, none except delivery are curative. In the interest of maternal health, delivery is essential regardless of gestational age when severe preeclampsia or eclampsia is diagnosed. Conversely, women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension remote from term may be managed conservatively with efforts directed toward prolonging gestation in order to maximize perinatal outcome. The regimen used at Parkland Memorial Hospital has proven to be safe and effective. We will continue to use this method of inpatient management until well-controlled studies are designed and conducted and yield comparably safe and efficacious outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8070610
Diabetic nephropathy is characterized by hypertension and a relentless decline in kidney function. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been claimed to preserve kidney function better than an equal blood pressure (BP) reduction with conventional antihypertensive treatment (renoprotection). We compared the effect on kidney function of lisinopril (10-20 mg/day) and atenolol (50-100 mg/day) in hypertensive NIDDM patients (mean age 60 +/- 8 years) with diabetic nephropathy. Forty-three (21 lisinopril and 22 atenolol) patients were enrolled in a 1-year randomized double-blind parallel study. Eight patients dropped out, and the results for the remaining 35 patients (16 lisinopril and 19 atenolol) are presented. Diuretics were required in 10 of 16 lisinopril patients and 12 of 19 atenolol patients. The following variables were measured: 24-hour ambulatory BP (Takeda TM2420), albuminuria (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), fractional albumin clearance, and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) ([51Cr]EDTA technique). The average reduction in mean arterial BP during the 12 months was identical in the two groups 12 +/- 2 vs. 11 +/- 1 mmHg in the lisinopril and atenolol group, respectively. Albuminuria was on average reduced 45% in the lisinopril group vs. 12% in the atenolol group (P < 0.01), and fractional albumin clearance was on average reduced 49% in the lisinopril group vs. 1% in the atenolol group (P < 0.05). GFR declined identically in the two groups 11.7 +/- 2.3 vs. 11.6 +/- 2.3 ml.min-1.year-1 in the lisinopril and atenolol groups, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8074049
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8074426
A randomised, parallel, double-blind trial was undertaken in 80 patients to compare the efficacy of bisoprolol with that of celiprolol, using causal (BPc) as well as ambulatory (AMBP) blood pressure measurement. After a two week wash-out and two week placebo run-in, patients in whom diastolic blood pressure (DBP) was between 95 and 114 mmHg were given either bisoprolol (10 mg/day) or celiprolol (200 mg/day) for 12 weeks. When efficacy was insufficient (DBP > 95 mmHg), the dose could be doubled after 4 weeks and a diuretic added after 8 weeks. BPc was measured at each visit and an AMBP obtained the day before the start of active treatment and at its end. Six patients dropped out of the trial because of adverse events. Clinical safety/acceptability of both drugs was good. Demographic data, and blood pressure and heart rate figures in both groups were comparable at the end of the placebo period. Mean fall in BPc in the bisoprolol group was 32.5/20.3 mmHg and 23/17.4 mmHg in the celiprolol group, with a significant difference between the two groups concerning systolic pressure (SBP). Ambulatory measurement showed evidence during the periods 24 hours (H), day and night, of a greater fall with bisoprolol (10.7/8.9 mmHg; 13.9/10.8 mmHg; 7.3/7.2 mmHg) than in the celiprolol group (4.9/21.6; 7.3/3.8; 2.9/2 mmHg), the difference being significant for diastolic blood pressure (DBP: p < 0.01; p < 0.05; p < 0.05. Thus bisoprolol was more effective than celiprolol in mild to moderate hypertension, but the difference was significant for SBP by casual measurement and for DBP by ambulatory measurement.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8077067
The majority of patients hospitalized due to suspected acute myocardial infarction (AMI) will eventually not develop infarction. Information about the long-term prognosis in this patient population is limited.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8087974
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8106700
This clinical trial was performed to determine the safety and clinical impact of titrated metoprolol therapy in patients with heart failure, documented coronary artery disease and a low ejection fraction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8107184
Eighteen cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices at risk for bleeding took part in a double-blind study. The variations in PFV induced by either 40 mg of propranolol or 60 mg of sustained-release isosorbide-5-mononitrate on two consecutive days were evaluated with a duplex Doppler device. Both drugs caused a significant decrease in maximum (propranolol, P = 0.002; isosorbide-5-mononitrate, P = 0.021). Four patients responded to propranolol, three to isosorbide-5-mononitrate, and eight to both drugs; three did not show any change. Duplex Doppler sonography may be of use in the selection of the right pharmacologic treatment for the individual patient for the prevention of a bleeding esophageal varix.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8111817
The efficacy and safety of once-daily nifedipine coat-core when added to a regimen of atenolol (ATN; 50 mg/day) were compared with ATN and placebo in 251 patients with essential hypertension in this 12-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study. Mean net reductions (ATN effect subtracted) in supine diastolic blood pressure at endpoint were 7.9 mmHg, 9.4 mmHg, and 9.9 mmHg at 30, 60, and 90 mg/day of nifedipine coat-core, respectively, and 4.1 mmHg on ATN+placebo. Beyond the first week of double-blind therapy, all reductions produced by nifedipine coat-core combined with ATN were statistically significant (P < 0.05) compared with ATN+placebo. On ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, trough-to-peak ratios of the change in diastolic blood pressure for the 30, 60, and 90 mg/day doses were 41%, 68%, and 78%, respectively. Adverse events were generally mild or moderate and most reflected the vasodilatory properties of nifedipine (eg, edema, headache). Nifedipine coat-core, when combined with ATN in patients not controlled by ATN alone, had significant antihypertensive activity for the entire 24-hour dosing interval and was well tolerated by the majority of patients in the study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8136096
To evaluate the effects on depressive mood of withdrawal of antihypertensive medication, we conducted a randomized, multi-center study with clinical centers at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, University of Alabama School of Medicine, Birmingham, and the University of Mississippi School of Medicine in Jackson. Patients were formerly active participants in the Hypertension Detection and Follow-Up Program (HDFP) whose blood pressure was controlled with drugs for a period of 5 years. Of 496 patients, 431 had both baseline and "1-year" mood scores. Patients, stratified by obesity, were randomized to one of three groups: continue the HDFP medication; discontinue medication with no dietary intervention, or with sodium restriction and potassium increase; or, for those overweight, to a weight reduction intervention. Depression was assessed using the CES-D scale (Center for Epidemiological Studies--Depressed Mood), administered at baseline and again approximately 1 year after randomization. Of the seven treatment groups, only those who continued their HDFP medication showed significant improvement in mood from baseline. The overweight continue-medication group showed significantly greater improvement compared to the no-drugs, no-diet intervention groups, and to the overweight sodium-restriction group. Patients who had their blood pressure successfully controlled with weight reduction had a significant improvement in mood from 11.0 scale points to 8.0, P = .006. Comparisons between those withdrawn from diuretic alone and those withdrawn from both diuretic plus reserpine were inconclusive. Dietary Intervention Study of Hypertension (DISH) shows no evidence that continued use of chlorthalidone has a negative impact on quality of life, while our results concerning reserpine were inconclusive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8142192
To describe the relation between the extent of a myocardial infarct, measured according to maximum serum enzyme activity of lactate dehydrogenase, and mortality at 10 years.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8144799
The purpose of this study was to assess the value of recombinant desulfatohirudin (hirudin) as adjunctive therapy to thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8147676
The relationship of antihypertensive drugs have a long history of association with sexual dysfunction; however, this relationship is poorly documented. There appears to be a higher rate of sexual dysfunction in untreated hypertensive men compared with normotensive men. Sexual dysfunction increases with age and is associated with physical and emotional symptoms. There are few studies assessing sexual dysfunction with female and African-American hypertensive patients. Sexual dysfunction is associated with impairment of quality of life and noncompliance. Since group data may hide individual drug effects, baseline data should be collected on all patients before initiating therapy with any antihypertensive agent. Although questionnaires may not provide objective information on sexual dysfunction, the response rate to direct questioning may be less than the response rate on a questionnaire and may be affected by the gender or race of the interviewer. Research protocols using a double-blind, placebo-controlled design should assess sexual dysfunction in men and women in a standardized fashion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8148217
1. The aim of this randomised, double-blind four way crossover study was to assess the interaction between the new calcium antagonist, lacidipine and atenolol, in patients with mild to moderate hypertension. 2. Sitting blood pressure at 4 h post-dosing with lacidipine (4 mg) and atenolol (100 mg) alone was significantly lower compared with placebo (137/89 +/- 3/3 mmHg; 142/89 +/- 5/3 mmHg; and 154/98 +/- 5/3 mmHg respectively; P < 0.001). Co-administration of both drugs produced a significant additive effect compared with atenolol and lacidipine alone (124/80 +/- 4/2 mmHg; P < 0.002). 3. Heart rate on treatment with lacidipine alone was significantly greater at 4 h compared with placebo (86 +/- 1 beats min-1 and 74 +/- 2 beats min-1 respectively; P < 0.001). When both drugs were used in combination, there was a significant decrease in pulse rate compared with lacidipine alone (58 +/- 1 beats min-1 and 86 +/- 1 beats min-1 respectively; P < 0.001). 4. Home blood pressure recordings confirmed the statistically significant reduction in blood pressure on co-dosing (120/82 +/- 10/2 mmHg) compared with lacidipine (140/92 +/- 5/3 mmHg) and atenolol (146/90 +/- 6/3 mmHg) given alone (P < 0.05). 5. Lacidipine alone produced a significant exercise tachycardia compared with atenolol alone and the atenolol/lacidipine combination (97 +/- 8 beats min-1; 65 +/- 4 beats min-1 and 75 +/- 7 beats min-1 respectively; P < 0.001). Exercise tolerance was not adversely affected by the co-administration of both lacidipine and atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8149521
Coronary artery thrombosis plays an important pathophysiological role in unstable angina and non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. To date, heparin and thrombolytic therapy has not provided complete or consistent benefit. We hypothesized that recombinant hirudin, a direct thrombin inhibitor, would prevent accumulation of coronary artery thrombus in a manner superior to heparin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8150546
The long-term efficacy and safety of amlodipine (2.5 to 10 mg) once daily was compared with that of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) (25 to 100 mg) daily in 139 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. The study was a randomized, open-label, parallel comparison of 50 weeks' duration. Patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio (amlodipine n = 92: HCTZ n = 47). Atenolol was added at week 12 if monotherapy was inadequate. At week 12, the mean reductions for supine and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure values with amlodipine were found to be -15.2/-12.3 mmHg and -14.0/-11.6 mmHg respectively, as compared to -15.5/-11.1 mmHg and -16.1/-10.1 mmHg after treatment with HCTZ. The percentage of patients responding to treatment at week 12 was 74% on amlodipine and 70% on HCTZ. The addition of atenolol in those patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy produced additional mean reductions in supine and standing systolic and diastolic pressures in both the amlodipine-atenolol group and in the HCTZ-atenolol group. The incidence of adverse effects was 47% with amlodipine and 26% with HCTZ at 12 weeks. Overall, six patients were discontinued because of side effects while receiving amlodipine monotherapy and one from the HCTZ monotherapy group; none were discontinued because of side effects on combination therapy. Laboratory test abnormalities were reported by 16% of amlodipine-treated patients compared with 63% of patients on HCTZ. The antihypertensive effects of amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide appeared to be comparable and were maintained during long-term therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8151265
To study the effect of metformin and metoprolol CR on insulin sensitivity, blood lipids, fibrinolytic activity and blood pressure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8152445
The aortic root enlarges progressively in Marfan's syndrome, and this enlargement is associated with aortic regurgitation and dissection. Long-term treatment with beta-adrenergic blockade, by reducing the impulse (i.e., the rate of pressure change in the aortic root) of left ventricular ejection and the heart rate, may protect the aortic root.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8154413
The effects of metoprolol on early infarct expansion after acute myocardial infarction were studied in rats (n = 54) that underwent either left coronary artery ligation (MI) or sham operation. Immediately after surgery, the rats received either metoprolol (M) by mouth, which had been dissolved in drinking water, for 72 hours supplemented with three intraperitoneal doses over the first 24 hours or no treatment (H2O). Three days after the initial surgery, hemodynamic measurements were made before and after volume loading. The rats were killed, the hearts were removed, and passive pressure-volume curves were obtained. The hearts were then fixed at a constant pressure and analyzed morphometrically. Infarct size was nonsignificantly lower in the metoprolol-treated group compared with the untreated group (38% +/- 5% MI-M vs 48% +/- 3% MI-H2O, p = 0.10) Compared with infarcted untreated rats, infarcted metoprolol-treated rats had a lower heart rate (322 +/- 13 beats/min MI-M vs 452 +/- 19 beats/min MI-H2O, p < 0.001), lower left ventricular systolic pressure (63 +/- 4 mm Hg MI-M vs 90 +/- 6 mm Hg MI-H2O, p = 0.004), and lower +dp/dt (1340 +/- 169 mm Hg/sec MI-M vs 2872 +/- 273 mm Hg/sec MI-H2O, p < 0.001), but left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and cardiac index did not differ between the two groups. Left ventricular weight corrected for body weight was higher in infarcted rats treated with metoprolol compared with infarcted untreated rats (2.76 +/- 0.07 gm/kg MI-M vs 2.41 +/- 0.09 gm/kg MI-H2O, p < 0.05). The initial slope of the pressure-volume relationship Ki, an index of operative volume stiffness, was lower in infarcted rats treated with metoprolol compared with infarcted untreated rats (p = 0.03). There were, however, no significant differences in the expansion index, thinning ratio, or left ventricular volume between the two infarcted groups. Thus metoprolol therapy begun in the immediate postinfarction period promotes an increase in left ventricular weight and reduces operative volume stiffness but has no significant effect on indexes of early infarct expansion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8155010
Patients with cerebral ischemia have a high mortality rate. The most common cause of death is myocardial infarction. We attempted to identify risk factors for subsequent cardiac events in patients with cerebral ischemia by means of the history and electrocardiography performed with the patient at rest.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8162238
Previous studies on the prognosis after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) have mainly focused on the first few years. In this study, we aimed to describe the mortality rate during 10 years of follow-up after development of AMI in relation to clinical history and observations during the hospital stay.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8173687
A double-blind, randomised, parallel-group study was performed to compare the efficacy and tolerability of a new extended-release tablet containing felodipine and metoprolol with each constituent agent as monotherapy. After a 4-week placebo period, 159 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension were randomised to receive either the combination tablet of felodipine and metoprolol 10/100 mg, felodipine 10 mg or metoprolol 100 mg once daily if supine diastolic blood pressure was > or = 95 mmHg. After 12 weeks of active treatment, reductions in supine systolic/diastolic blood pressure 24 h after dosing were 20/14, 13/10 and 11/8 mmHg with felodipine-metoprolol, felodipine and metoprolol, respectively. The differences in blood pressure changes were 7/4 mmHg (p = 0.004/0.006) and 8/5 mmHg (p = 0.0002/< 0.0001) between the fixed combination and felodipine and metoprolol, respectively. Blood pressure response (defined as a diastolic blood pressure < or = 90 mmHg and/or a reduction > or = 10 mmHg) after 12 weeks of treatment was greater with the combination than with felodipine or metoprolol alone: 85% vs 72% (p = 0.06) and 54% (p = 0.001), respectively. Treatments were well tolerated and adverse events were as expected from previous studies with each agent and did not differ in frequency between groups. In conclusion, the extended-release tablet formulation of felodipine-metoprolol 10/100 mg produces a clinically relevant and significantly greater blood pressure reduction 24 h after dosing than either agent as monotherapy without decreasing tolerability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8173688
This was a 12-week double-blind, parallel-group study of 186 patients with supine diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 115 mmHg randomised to receive either 5 mg of felodipine or 50 mg of metoprolol, or a combination tablet containing the two drugs at the same dosages, given once daily. All drugs were extended-release formulations and blood pressure was measured 24 h after drug administration. After 12 weeks of treatment, the mean systolic/diastolic blood pressure reduction was significantly greater with the felodipine-metoprolol combination (28/18 mmHg) compared with felodipine (18/12 mmHg) or metoprolol (19/12 mmHg) alone. Antihypertensive response rate, defined as the percent of patients achieving a supine diastolic blood pressure < or = 90 mmHg and/or a reduction of > or = 10 mmHg with treatment, was significantly greater with the fixed combination (98%) than with either felodipine (79%) or metoprolol (82%) as monotherapy. The mean reduction in heart rate was significantly less with the combination (2 beats/min) than with metoprolol alone (4 beats/min), and heart rate was virtually unchanged in the felodipine group. The increased antihypertensive efficacy of the combination was associated with good tolerability that was similar to that of the monotherapies. Adverse events were mainly those related to arteriolar dilatation with felodipine and the combination, and dizziness and fatigue with metoprolol. Two patients taking the combination were withdrawn due to adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8173689
In this double-blind, randomised, three-way crossover (latin square design), multicentre study, the aim was to compare the efficacy and tolerability of the fixed combination of felodipine and metoprolol with the individual components as monotherapy. A total of 58 patients with supine diastolic blood pressure of 100-115 mmHg were treated with (1) a fixed combination of felodipine plus metoprolol 5/50-10/100 mg (FM), (2) felodipine 5-10 mg (F) or (3) metoprolol 50-100 mg (M), for 12 weeks each. All treatments were extended-release formulations administered once daily and blood pressure was measured 24 h after dosing. Dose titration was performed after 6 weeks if diastolic blood pressure was > 90 mmHg. After 12 weeks of active treatment, the mean supine blood pressures were 153/89, 159/93 and 163/94 mmHg with FM, F and M, respectively. The mean differences in systolic/diastolic blood pressure were -5.6/-3.1 mmHg (p = 0.007/p = 0.002), -10.2/-4.4 mmHg (p < 0.0001/p < 0.0001) and -4.6/-1.4 mmHg (p = 0.03/p = 0.15) for FM vs F, FM vs M, and F vs M, respectively. Blood pressure control (supine diastolic blood pressure < or = 90 mmHg) after 12 weeks was achieved in a significantly greater proportion of patients during treatment with FM than with F or M; 71%, 45% and 40% were controlled with the respective treatments. With FM, 45% of the patients were taking the higher dose after 12 weeks of treatment. The corresponding figures for F and M were 60% and 67%, respectively. Thirteen of the 58 patients (22%) were controlled only with FM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8173698
The results of previous studies on the effects of antihypertensive agents on circadian blood pressure patterns are inconclusive, possibly due to the lack of a simple, objective, universally accepted method of quantifying circadian blood pressure profiles. In order to investigate for differences in the effects of antihypertensive drugs on circadian changes we utilised a recently described modified cumulative sums technique to quantify circadian alteration magnitude (CAM). CAM is simply calculated as the difference between crest and trough blood pressures, the mean blood pressures of the 6-h periods of highest and lowest sustained pressures respectively. The records from all 24-h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring performed over a 7 year period on subjects either on no medication (1208), or on treatment with a single first-line antihypertensive agent (578), were examined retrospectively. A sample (n = 40) stratified for trough diastolic blood pressure, age and sex was randomly selected from each of the following 5 groups: subjects on no medication, and subjects being treated with bendrofluazide, atenolol, class 2 calcium-channel blockers or captopril alone. Untreated subjects, those on bendrofluazide and those on a class 2 calcium channel blocker had similar circadian patterns. Subjects on atenolol therapy (25.9 +/- 1.7/18.3 +/- 1.3, systolic CAM +/- SE/diastolic CAM +/- SE) had attenuated circadian changes (p < 0.05) when compared to the untreated group (29.8 +/- 1.8/23.6 +/- 1.1), while those on captopril (34.9 +/- 2.4/25.7 +/- 1.8) exhibited markedly increased systolic and diastolic circadian blood pressure swings, which differed from those of the atenolol treated group (p < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8175218
Several experimental studies carried out on animals and on isolated heart preparations show that captopril can reduce post-ischemic reperfusion injury. Our study was aimed at investigating the effects of captopril before thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and included 259 patients, hospitalized within 4 h of the onset of symptoms. Patients were randomly subdivided into two groups: the first group (131 patients, Group A, pretreatment) received 6.25 mg captopril orally about 15 min before i.v. administration of urokinase (2 million), the second group (128 patients, Group B, late-treatment), received captopril about 3 days after thrombolytic treatment. Captopril doses were later increased in both groups according to blood pressure. All patients were subdivided according to the localization of infarction. Anterior AMI was shown by 166 patients (84 from Group A and 82 from Group B); 93 patients showed inferior AMI (47 from Group A and 46 from Group B). Ventricular hyperkinetic arrhythmias (VHAs) due to reperfusion were evaluated during the first 2 h. VHAs occurred in 11.9% of patients with anterior AMI in Group A vs. 37.8% in Group B (P < 0.001). CK peak normalization time in the group with anterior AMI was achieved after 58 +/- 2 h in Group A vs. 71 +/- 2 h in Group B (P < 0.001). CK peak was 1719 +/- 152 in Group A vs. 2184 +/- 164 U/l in Group B, (P < 0.039). Late arrhythmias, higher than Lown's Class 2 were found to occur in 15.4% of patients with anterior AMI of Group A vs. 31.7% in Group B (P < 0.022), at predischarge Holter test.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8176095
This study assessed the effects of beta-blockade on heart rate variability in patients with coronary artery disease and determined whether the effects of metoprolol in a controlled-release formulation and atenolol differ with regard to electrocardiographic measures of cardiac autonomic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8176099
This study was performed to investigate exercise hemodynamic status in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial and was a substudy in the Metoprolol in Dilated Cardiomyopathy Trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8179847
Plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) have been reported to be unchanged or increased in patients with essential hypertension. Head out of water immersion (HOI) in a thermoneutral bath induces diuresis and natriuresis, an increase in plasma ANF, and reductions in plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentrations. HOI was used in this study to stimulate the secretion of ANF, and compare its release in patients with essential hypertension (EH) (n = 14) and normotensive subjects (n = 13). Renal function changes induced by HOI were also monitored. HOI that lasted 2 h was compared with a control-seated period in each subject. Blood pressure was significantly reduced (P < .05) in normotensive controls from 112 +/- 3/74 +/- 2 to 100 +/- 3/61 +/- 2 mm Hg, and in patients with EH from 137 +/- 4/93 +/- 3 to 123 +/- 3/78 +/- 2 mm Hg. Plasma levels of ANF increased significantly (P < .05) in both groups from 5.9 +/- 1.3 to 16.3 +/- 3 pmol/L in normotensive controls and from 6.0 +/- 0.9 to 13.2 +/- 2.5 pmol/L in patients with EH. Plasma cyclic guanosine monophosphate concentrations increased more (P < .05) in the patients with EH (3.9 +/- 0.4 to 6.1 +/- 0.5 nmol/L) than in controls (3.4 +/- 0.3 to 4.8 +/- 0.4 nmol/L), whereas plasma renin activity levels decreased in controls (2.29 +/- 0.58 to 1.63 +/- 0.55 ng/mL/h) and to a greater degree in patients with EH (1.62 +/- 0.52 to 0.77 +/- 0.19 ng/mL/h, P < .05) by HOI.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8181028
Congestive heart failure is associated with a considerable reduction in survival with only about 50% of patients alive within 5 years of its diagnosis. Recent trials have demonstrated that vasodilator therapy can improve survival in this condition. Agents that have been shown to be effective in well-designed double-blind clinical trials include the combination of hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate (in V-HeFT) and the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (in SOLVD, SAVE, and CONSENSUS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8182401
To compare the effects of dry needling of myofascial trigger points in the neck region to metoprolol in migraine prophylaxis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8186348
Propranolol has been shown to be effective in both primary and secondary treatment of variceal haemorrhage; most primary prevention trials have only included patients with large oesophageal varices.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8192695
The effects of isradipine (Lomir, CAS 75695-93-1) and metoprolol (CAS 37350-58-6) on geometry and arterial compliance of the arteria brachialis of 14 patients each with essential hypertension were compared acutely and after three months of therapy by means of pulsed Doppler sonography and the determination of pulse wave velocity. A calculation model was used that allowed to determine the drug-specific effects on arterial diameter and compliance under isobaric conditions. Isradipine increased measured and isobaric diameter during short-term (p < 0.05) and long-term administration (p < 0.05) whereas metoprolol did not change it. Isradipine increased measured and isobaric compliance during short-term (p < 0.05) and long-term administration (p < 0.05). Metoprolol reduced measured compliance acutely (p < 0.01) and isobaric compliance acutely (p < 0.05) and long-term (p < 0.05). Drug-specific effects on compliance were different during short-term and long-term administration (p < 0.01); the diameter was influenced differently only during short-term administration (p < 0.05). These opposite drug effects on the A. brachialis are probably due to a vasoselective relaxation of smooth muscle in large arteries by isradipine and-in the case of metoprolol-arterial constriction. The increase of arterial compliance by isradipine reduces very effectively the load on the heart and could form the basis for the improvement in the prognosis of the hypertensive patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8199723
This study compared with placebo the efficacy and tolerability of optimised doses of felodipine 5-20 mg daily, metoprolol 50-200 mg daily and their combination in subjects 60 years or over with isolated systolic hypertension. The study employed a randomised double-blind crossover design with allocation of treatment order within subjects by Latin squares. For each subject, after a single-blind run-in placebo phase, there were four randomised treatment phases each of six weeks duration, with a dose titration step at three weeks if necessary. Twenty-eight subjects entered the randomised phases of the study and twenty-one completed all four phases--13 male, 8 female (ages: median 71, range 59-85 years). At the end of both the felodipine and metoprolol phases systolic and diastolic pressure were reduced at 2 hours postdose compared with the placebo phase (p < 0.001), the blood pressure reduction with felodipine (-40/-20 mmHg) being greater than that with metoprolol (-15/-9 mmHg) (p < 0.01). Immediately predose (12 hours postdose) there was a persisting reduction of supine systolic blood pressure (-17 mmHg) with felodipine (p < 0.001), but there was no significant effect of metoprolol. At both measurement times the two drugs when in combination had an additive effect on blood pressure. There was a 20% increase in reported symptoms during each of the active treatment phases. Four subjects withdrew during the randomised phases because of probable drug-related adverse events and six subjects required dosage reductions during the felodipine or combination phases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8202100
Sotalol is a novel antiarrhythmic agent combining beta-adrenergic-antagonist actions with the ability to increase cardiac repolarization and refractoriness. The drug's electrophysiologic and clinical profile is different from that of conventional beta-receptor antagonists. As compared with other antiarrhythmic agents, sotalol prevents recurrences of arrhythmia in a higher proportion of patients, particularly among those presenting with ventricular tachycardia and aborted sudden cardiac death. The net hemodynamic effect of sotalol is the result of a balance between the depressant effects due to beta-receptor blockade and an action that tends to increase contractility. Although initially marketed in the United States for treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, sotalol also has demonstrated efficacy in many patients with supraventricular arrhythmias. As with all drugs that prolong the QT interval, the syndrome of torsade de pointes is a serious potential adverse effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8203987
In recent years, substantial investigative attention has focused on therapeutic regimens that could retard the progression of chronic renal insufficiency. Emphasis has been placed on the effects of antihypertensive treatment on renal hemodynamics and preservation of renal function. It has been suggested that some classes of antihypertensive agents may confer a greater renoprotective effect, especially agents that lower glomerular capillary pressure. Conversely, by virtue of their ability to preferentially dilate the afferent arteriole calcium antagonists theoretically could favor an increase in glomerular capillary pressure thereby accelerating the decline of renal function. In this review we survey the literature critically and conclude that in patients with essential hypertension and in patients with chronic renal insufficiency, calcium antagonists effectively reduce systemic blood pressure while maintaining glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow. Preliminary results from a few long-term studies suggest that calcium antagonists may even attenuate the decline in renal function of patients with chronic renal failure. The majority of studies in humans, however, have been nonrandomized, of too short duration, or confounded by investigative difficulties precluding definite conclusions whether calcium antagonists have renoprotective effects. Although the possibility that calcium antagonists may retard progression of renal disease remains to be ascertained, the available evidence indicates that calcium antagonists may be used in patients with renal functional impairment without further exacerbating renal function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8205301
There is evidence that calcium antagonists may have a beneficial effect on cyclosporin A (CyA)-induced hypertension after organ transplantation. In a double-blind controlled trial, 50 consecutive non-diabetic first kidney-transplant recipients were randomized to receive either isradipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, or placebo. There were no significant differences in age, weight, gender, warm and cold ischaemic periods, and original renal disease between treatment groups. Treatment was started intravenously 2 h before the transplantation procedure and was subsequently continued orally for 3 months. The immunosuppressive treatment included oral CyA from day 5 after a short course of anti-T-lymphocyte immunoglobulins. Hypertension was treated with oral labetolol in combination with guanfacine if necessary. Antihypertensive medication was prescribed significantly more often (16 vs 7 patients; p < 0.05) in the placebo group. Standing systolic blood pressure was significantly lower in the isradipine group. The standing diastolic and both systolic and diastolic sitting blood pressures were similar in both groups. After 3 months, patients' mean serum creatinine was significantly lower with isradipine than with placebo (142.0 +/- 11.9 vs 164.0 +/- 10.8 mumol/l; p < 0.05). With isradipine, a significantly higher dose of CyA was needed to achieve adequate plasma levels (8.0 +/- 0.5 vs 6.2 +/- 0.5 mg/kg/day; p < 0.01). It can be concluded that isradipine is an effective antihypertensive agent after kidney transplantation and may have an influence on CyA metabolism. Furthermore, isradipine appears to ameliorate CyA-induced nephropathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8210018
This study was designed to investigate the influence of anaesthesia induced and maintained with propofol on the haemodynamic effects and the dose requirements of SNP during the course of induced hypotension. Twenty-four adult ASA physical status I patients undergoing middle ear surgery were randomly assigned to receive anaesthesia with either morphine, thiopentone, d-tubocurarine, halothane 0.6% end-tidal and N2O 70% in oxygen (group I n = 12), or morphine, propofol, d-tubocurarine, propofol infusion 108 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 and N2O in oxygen (group 2 n = 12). Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) was reduced to 60-65 mmHg in all patients using a continuous infusion of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) 0.01%. Propofol produced a significant (17%) reduction in the MAP before institution of SNP infusion. This was related to a 24% reduction in the systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI). In the halothane group SVRI was significantly reduced during SNP infusion. Halothane anaesthesia was associated with significant reflex tachycardia in response to SNP induced hypotension. Eight patients in the halothane group (66%) required propranolol 0.5-3 mg to control tachycardia. Propofol anaesthesia attenuated significantly the reflex tachycardia in response to SNP induced hypotension. Two patients in the propofol group (16%) required 0.5 mg propranolol to control reflex tachycardia. The mean SNP dose requirements were 7.25 +/- 1.6 and 2.1 +/- 1.4 micrograms. kg-1.min-1 in the halothane and propofol groups, respectively (P < 0.0001). None of the patients in the two groups developed rebound hypertension following SNP withdrawal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8252957
We evaluated exercise performance in 14 patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension 1 h after the administration of a single dose of placebo, nifedipine (20 mg), captopril (50 mg), and propranolol (80 mg). Drugs were administered at the same time of day following a randomized, double-blind protocol. Mean resting blood pressure (+/- SE) was 135 +/- 3 mm Hg with placebo administration, 118 +/- 4 with captopril, 110 +/- 4 with nifedipine, and 115 +/- 5 with propranolol and increased with exercise to 163 +/- 4, 146 +/- 3, 136 +/- 4, 136 +/- 4, respectively. Oxygen consumption at peak exercise and at ventilatory anaerobic threshold (VAT) was 25.2 +/- 1.1 and 18.1 +/- 1.0 ml/min/kg with placebo. Only propranolol (-2.3 ml/min/kg) decreased peak exercise oxygen consumption. Oxygen consumption at VAT was reduced by nifedipine and propranolol but unaffected by captopril. The effects on exercise capacity of blood pressure reduction in hypertensive patients are dependent on the drug utilized and are not related to the amount of blood pressure reduction. The lowered oxygen consumption at VAT observed with nifedipine and propranolol, and not with captopril, might be due to an excessive downward shift of the muscle perfusion pressure--oxygen consumption relationship which might take place during exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8259746
Ninety-seven women with moderate to severe preeclampsia (PE) were allocated at random to labetalol or hydralazine treatment. Of these, 22 women with severe PE gave birth to neonates with VLBW (very low birth weight < or = 1500 g). Seven were allocated to labetalol treatment (Group A), eight to hydralazine treatment (Group B) and seven women received both drugs due to poor blood pressure control with a single drug therapy (Group C). No difference in cesarean section rate or in the indication for operative delivery could be seen. Gestational age was 29.9 weeks (25.4-32.5) in Group A, 28.6 weeks (26.6-33.4) in Group B and 27.3 weeks (26.7-31.1) in Group C (median and range). Birth weight did not differ between groups and 13 of the 22 infants weighed below 1000 g. There was a tendency to lower Apgar scores at five minutes in the hydralazine group. Time spent in the neonatal intensive care unit did not differ between groups. Five of the 11 neonates with gestational age (GA) < or = 28 weeks and three of the seven neonates in GA 29-30 weeks died. Neither the number of infants requiring intermittent positive pressure ventilation or duration of O2- treatment, nor number of infants with respiratory distress syndrome differed between groups. We did not find any difference in the outcome of the VLBW infants when the hypertensive mother had been treated with either hydralazine or labetalol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8262084
One hundred and fourteen patients (94 male) with chronic stable angina who had a positive exercise test after 4 weeks on atenolol alone were randomized to receive either atenolol alone or the fixed combination of atenolol and nifedipine slow release formulation for 4 weeks in a double-blind cross-over manner. Exercise stress testing (Bruce protocol) at the end of each treatment period demonstrated that the time to the onset of pain and occurrence of 1 mm ST segment depression improved significantly (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001 respectively) whilst on the fixed combination compared to atenolol alone. In order to achieve sufficient sensitivity in the analysis of the exercise times, novel statistical methods based on survival analysis were used. Maximum ST segment depression was 0.13 mm less (P < 0.04) while on the fixed combination. The incidence of withdrawals and adverse effects was similar on both treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8263885
This randomised, double-blind study compared the efficacy and safety of a fixed combination of hydroflumethiazide 50 mg and reserpine 0.125 mg (H-R) and chlortalidone 12.5 mg and atenolol 50 mg (C-A) in adult black patients with mild to moderate hypertension (a resting supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) between 95 and 115 mmHg after a two week placebo washout period). If the DBP did not reach 90 mmHg after four weeks, the dosage was doubled. There were 27 patients in the H-R group and 22 in the C-A group who completed the study. In the H-R group, supine systolic and diastolic BP were reduced from 156.5 (95% confidence intervals 150.1-162.9) and 102.0 (97.5-106.5) mmHg to 137.0 (130.6-143.4) and 87.4 (83.0-91.9) mmHg, respectively. The corresponding values in the C-A group were 154.1 (147.0-161.2) and 103.4 (98.5-108.4) mmHg to 136.4 (129.3-143.5) and 91.2 (86.2-96.1) mmHg, respectively. Normalisation, response and control of DBP was achieved in 88.9, 92.6 and 100% of patients, respectively, in the H-R group, and in 81.8, 95.5 and 95.5% of patients in the C-A group, respectively. The dose was doubled in 14.8% of patients on H-R and 40.1% on C-A. No clinically significant abnormalities in laboratory variables and no serious adverse effects were encountered. Both drugs have been shown to be efficacious and safe in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension in black patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8269444
Two recent, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies established the efficacy and safety of low-dose bisoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. Bisoprolol, a cardioselective beta-blocker, was used in a dose of 2.5 mg, 5 mg, or 10 mg. HCTZ was used at a dose of 6.25 mg. This low-dose compound was developed to minimize dose-related adverse effects. The addition of HCTZ to each of the doses of bisoprolol was compared with monotherapy and placebo. Results of both studies demonstrated that this once-a-day, low-dose option effectively reduced sitting diastolic and systolic blood pressure measured at the end of the 24-hour dosing period. Drug-related adverse effects, including those generally associated with traditional beta-blocker therapy, were infrequent in individuals who received the low-dose bisoprolol/HCTZ regimen. Dose-related side effects were minimized because of the low doses of the two agents used together. There were no significant changes in mean total cholesterol, triglycerides, or serum glucose with bisoprolol/HCTZ 6.25 mg therapy versus placebo (analysis of variance statistical methods). The incidence of treatment-induced hypokalemia with bisoprolol/HCTZ 6.25 mg was not significant; uric acid elevations were minimized, and the incidence of hyperuricemia was significantly (P < 0.01) less with bisoprolol/HCTZ 6.25 mg than with 25 mg of HCTZ. Once-a-day dosing with the low-dose agent controlled (defined as a sitting diastolic blood pressure < or = 90 mmHg and/or a decrease from baseline > or = 10 mmHg) blood pressure in up to 80% of patients for a full 24 hours after dosing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8276050
We have studied the pharmacodynamic effects of ramipril, propranolol, and their combination, as well as the effect of propranolol on the pharmacokinetics of ramipril in 12 healthy men (age 24 (SD 6) y, weight 72 (7) kg). Propranolol and placebo, ramipril and placebo, or propranolol and ramipril were given orally for four days in a crossover, double-blind fashion. The pharmacokinetics of ramipril and ramiprilat were investigated on day 4. Effects on plasma renin activity, ACE activity, and heart rate and blood pressure both before and after a standardized exercise test were measured on days 1 and 4. On day 4 the combination reduced the mean arterial pressure by 2.8 mmHg compared with propranolol alone and by 3.7 mmHg compared with ramipril alone. Ramipril had no effect on the bradycardia induced by propranolol. Propranolol reduced exercise mean arterial pressure by 9 mmHg (day 4) and heart rate by 7 beats.min-1 (day 4) compared with ramipril; this was not affected by co-administration of ramipril. On day 4 the average plasma renin activity was not significantly higher than after the combination. ACE activity was not affected by propranolol. The pharmacokinetics of ramipril and ramiprilat were not influenced by propranolol. The combination of ramipril and propranolol has additive pharmacodynamic effects that may be useful in the treatment of hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8279372
A gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) of nifedipine has been developed to provide a once-daily dosing, and predictable, relatively constant plasma concentrations. This study compared the antianginal efficacy of nifedipine GITS with a once-a-day beta-receptor blocker, atenolol. Seventeen patients with documented coronary artery disease and stable stress-induced angina pectoris were studied during a 2-week, single-blind, placebo baseline phase and a 12-week randomized, double-blind, active drug crossover efficacy phase, using the bicycle exercise test and ambulatory electrocardiographic recordings. Patients exercised significantly longer with nifedipine GITS (883 +/- 47 seconds) and atenolol (908 +/- 44 seconds) than with placebo (794 +/- 41 seconds). Nifedipine GITS reduced systolic blood pressure at all stages of exercise compared with placebo but, because heart rate tended to increase more during nifedipine therapy, there was no difference in rate-pressure products between the placebo and nifedipine GITS periods. In contrast, atenolol reduced heart rate, systolic blood pressure and rate-pressure product during exercise compared with placebo. Whereas left ventricular ejection fractions (by radionuclide angiocardiography) increased with exercise, the maximal increase was smaller with atenolol than with placebo and nifedipine. The net increase in left ventricular ejection fraction at the end of exercise was greater with nifedipine than with placebo or atenolol. Ambulatory electrocardiograms showed only a small number of ischemic events. Neither nifedipine GITS nor atenolol reduced the number of ischemic events or total duration of ST-segment deviations significantly. It is concluded that nifedipine GITS is as effective an antianginal agent as atenolol, but the hemodynamic effects of the 2 agents differ.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8279377
Fourteen patients (5%) with an intermediate septal accessory pathway were identified among 283 consecutive patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome who had electrophysiologic study and radiofrequency ablation therapy. Nine were women and 5 were men (mean age 33 +/- 13 years). The resting electrocardiogram showed ventricular preexcitation in 8 patients and normal PR interval in 6. Anterograde and retrograde mapping studies revealed that the accessory pathway was para-Hisian in 11 patients and paranodal in 3. The accessory pathway was successfully ablated in 10 patients (9 para-Hisian and 1 paranodal) and damaged in 1 (para-Hisian). Treatment of 3 patients was complicated by transient atrioventricular (AV) block, of 1 by intermittent second-degree AV block, and of another by permanent complete AV block requiring implantation of a permanent pacemaker. Six patients underwent a follow-up electrophysiologic study 84 +/- 55 days after ablation; none had induction of tachycardia even after isoproterenol infusion. It is concluded that radiofrequency ablation therapy for intermediate septal accessory pathway is feasible. However, the success rate is only modest (71%), whereas complications with heart block (36%) or complete right bundle branch block (29%) are high. Thus, the procedure should be reserved for patients with life-threatening or troublesome symptomatic tachyarrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8281538
Suspecting that platelet thromboemboli could play a role in the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemia, we have done a random-order, double-blind, crossover study of the effect of the platelet-active drug sulfinpyrazone on treadmill exercise-induced angina pectoris in 30 men with coronary artery disease. The mean duration of exercise before onset of angina was 43 s longer after taking sulfinpyrazone than before and 11 s shorter after taking placebo than before. Analysis of variance for crossover design showed that the mean difference between the values obtained before and after sulfinpyrazone was significantly different (p < 0.01) from the mean difference between the values before and after placebo. Sulfinpyrazone had no effect on the mean heart rate-blood pressure product at onset of angina, change in ST segment during exercise, or preexercise platelet aggregate ratio and bleeding time. Exercise until angina occurred did not affect the platelet aggregate ratio.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8282334
Seventeen male untreated mild essential hypertensive patients aged 41 +/- 2 years agreed to participate in a double-blind randomized trial to test the effects of antihypertensive treatment on the structure and function of subcutaneous resistance arteries. Patients were treated with either 50 to 100 mg/d atenolol or 2.5 to 5 mg/d cilazapril. Blood pressure before treatment was 148 +/- 6/99 +/- 1 and 147 +/- 2/99 +/- 1 mm Hg, respectively. At 1 year of treatment blood pressure was 131 +/- 4/85 +/- 2 and 132 +/- 2/87 +/- 1 mm Hg, respectively. Resistance arteries (200 to 400 microns lumen diameter) dissected from subcutaneous gluteal biopsies obtained before treatment and at 1 year showed that the media-lumen ratio of arteries from patients treated with cilazapril was reduced to 6.31 +/- 0.21% from 7.54 +/- 0.31% before treatment (P < .05), still slightly but significantly larger (P < .05) than the media-lumen ratio of resistance arteries of normotensive control subjects (5.15 +/- 0.30%). In contrast, in arteries from patients treated with atenolol there was no significant change with treatment (7.97 +/- 0.60% before and 8.07 +/- 0.45% after 1 year of treatment). Active wall tension responses to endothelin-1 were blunted in hypertensive patients and normalized in the cilazapril-treated patients. Depressed active media stress responses to norepinephrine, arginine vasopressin, and endothelin-1 were accordingly normalized in the patients receiving cilazapril as the media width became thinner but were unchanged in those taking atenolol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8288408
We conducted a randomised controlled trial to study the effects of metoprolol and diltiazem on the total ischaemic burden--sum of symptomatic and silent myocardial ischaemia, in 146 patients with stable angina pectoris. One-hundred thirty-four completed the study protocol. Sixty-eight patients received metoprolol (100 mg twice daily, n = 52, 50 mg twice daily, n = 16) while 66 received diltiazem (90 mg three times daily, n = 50, 60 mg three times daily, n = 16). The drugs were given for 4 weeks. The primary outcome variables were frequency and duration of total ischaemic burden, silent and symptomatic myocardial ischaemia. These were measured on 48 h of Holter monitoring. The reductions in duration and frequency of total ischaemic burden by metoprolol, 76% and 40%, respectively, were significantly higher than by diltiazem, 43% and 24%, respectively (P < 0.01 and P < 0.02). The frequency and duration of silent myocardial ischaemia, which constituted more than 80% of the total ischaemic burden in the two groups showed similar results. However, the reduction in frequency of symptomatic myocardial ischaemia only was significantly greater by metoprolol (63% than diltiazem (24%) as the difference in reduction of duration of symptomatic ischaemia was insignificant (85% vs. 75%; P > 0.05). Whether a greater reduction of total ischaemic burden by metoprolol as compared to diltiazem has any implications for prognosis in patients with chronic stable angina remains to be established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8299527
The effect of two angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, lisinopril and captopril, on proteinuria and renal haemodynamics was investigated in 11 hypertensives (9 men, 2 women; mean age 46 +/- 16 years) with proteinuria (> 1.5 g/24 h) due to chronic glomerulonephritis and impaired renal function (glomerular filtration rate < 75 ml/min). In a randomized and double-blind cross-over trial the patients received, each time for six weeks, either lisinopril (5 mg/d, sometimes increased to 10 mg/d after 3 weeks) or captopril (twice daily 12.5 mg, sometimes increased to twice 25 mg after 3 weeks). Initially and between the individual treatment phases they were on a placebo phase for 4 weeks. The following were measured: protein excretion, including fractional clearance of albumin and IgG, plasma-renin activity and renal haemodynamics. Protein excretion was not significantly reduced by either drug (placebo: 7.1 +/- 4.0 g/d; lisinopril: 5.1 +/- 2.8 g/d; captopril: 5.4 +/- 3.0 g/d). Albumin excretion and fractional albumin clearance were significantly decreased only by lisinopril (P < 0.05), not by captopril. Plasma-renin activity was increased more by lisinopril than captopril (Placebo: 1.0 +/- 0.9 ng/ml.h; lisinopril: 5.2 +/- 2.8 ng/ml.h [P < 0.05]; captopril: 1.8 +/- 1.3 ng/ml.h [P < 0.05]). The renal haemodynamics was only slightly influenced by either drug, but captopril significantly decreased the filtration fraction in the presence of chronic glomerulonephritis and renal failure. - Resulting from their influence on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, ACE inhibitors have, in addition to their known action on renal haemodynamics, an independent effect on the loading barrier of the basal membrane of the kidney.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8300464
Adverse alterations in lipid profile suggesting higher atherogenicity were observed following 12 weeks treatment with atenolol in patients of hypertension. No significant alterations in lipid profile were observed with labetalol therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8301064
A prospective randomized double-blind study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of propranolol in patients with portal hypertension undergoing long-term endoscopic sclerotherapy (EST) for recurrent variceal bleeding. Consecutive patients with portal hypertension (Child's class A or B) due to cirrhosis (n = 72), non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis (n = 29) and extrahepatic portal venous obstruction (n = 13) attending the liver clinic of a tertiary care center were included in the study. All patients had had at least one documented episode of variceal bleed in the previous 4 weeks. Fifty-eight patients received propranolol and 56 received placebo in addition to weekly EST. Rebleeding occurred in 12 (21%) patients in the placebo group and 10 (17%) patients in the propranolol group during a mean follow-up period of 24.4 +/- 10.4 months in the former and 23.8 +/- 9.2 months in the latter group (P > 0.1). The number of episodes of rebleeding (14 in the placebo and 12 in the propranolol group) were also similar (P > 0.1). The median bleeding-free period was more than 40 months in both treatment groups (P > 0.1). The mean transfusion requirements and the number of hospital admissions for rebleeding were also similar in the two treatment groups (P > 0.1). Complete obliteration of varices was achieved in 44 (78.9%) patients in the placebo group and 43 (75.5%) patients in the propranolol group (P > 0.1). Recurrence of new varices was seen in two patients in the placebo and in three of those in the propranolol group. Seven patients in the placebo group and five in the propranolol group died (P > 0.1). Complications related to EST were similar in the two treatment groups but additional adverse effects were observed in the propranolol group. The cumulative incidence of rebleeding in the placebo group was 12.7 and in the propranolol group it was 11.2 per 100 patient years of follow-up. It is concluded that the addition of propranolol in patients with portal hypertension and fair hepatic function on long-term EST does not confer any additional benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8301065
The purpose of this study was to investigate the possible value of continuous administration of propranolol in the prevention of recurrent upper gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis undergoing chronic endoscopic sclerotherapy. Among 239 patients admitted for acute variceal bleeding, 85 with cirrhosis were randomized to receive sclerotherapy either alone (40) or in combination with propranolol (45). Sclerotherapy was carried out with an intravariceal injection of 5% ethanolamine oleate through a fiberoptic endoscope. The procedure was performed every week, until the esophageal varices at the gastroesophageal junction were too small for any further injections. Varices were reinjected if they recurred. Propranolol was given orally twice a day until heart rate was reduced by 25% in the resting position. The mean follow-up period was 23.2 and 24.2 months for sclerotherapy and the sclerotherapy plus propranolol groups, respectively. During this period a significant (P = 0.001) reduction in the recurrence of esophageal varices was observed in patients treated with the combination of sclerotherapy plus propranolol compared with those treated with sclerotherapy alone. However, the time of rebleeding from any source or from esophageal varices did not differ significantly between the two groups. In the sclerotherapy group 21 patients rebled (35 bleeding episodes) compared with 14 (22 episodes) in the combination therapy group. Patients in the sclerotherapy group were more prone to bleed from gastric varices and congestive gastropathy than patients treated with the combination of sclerotherapy plus propranolol (P = 0.012). Twenty-five patients in the endoscopic sclerotherapy group developed complications attributed to sclerotherapy compared with 23 patients in the sclerotherapy plus propranolol group. Complications directly attributable to propranolol were observed in 11 patients. Three of these patients stopped taking the drug due to heart failure (1) and flapping tremor (2). Eight patients (17.8%) died in the latter group while the corresponding figure in the sclerotherapy group was nine (22.5%). It is concluded that the continuous administration of propranolol may reduce incidences of recurrent upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from gastric sources in patients with cirrhosis undergoing chronic sclerotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8303108
The aim of this study was to assess the effect of propranolol treatment on the recurrence of variceal bleeding and mortality in patients with hepatic cirrhosis. Fifty seven patients were studied; they were recruited within 15 days of an episode of variceal bleeding, assigned randomly to receive propranolol (n = 29) placebo (n = 28) and followed during 4 years. Three patients were lost from follow up and in 3 propranolol was discontinued due to secondary effects. Bleeding recurrence was less frequent in the treated patients (Kaplan Meier analysis p < 0.01). Ten patients on placebo and 1 receiving the active drug died. Life table analysis showed a significantly better survival in the group of patients treated with propranolol. It is concluded that propranolol decreases the recurrence of variceal bleeding and improves survival in patients with hepatic cirrhosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8304366
This trial was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of three different classes of antihypertensive agents in elderly women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8306902
Sixty patients with Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) of 100-110mmHg matched for age, sex and Bp levels were randomly assigned to propranolol 80mg daily or Hydroflumethiazide (HFM) 50mg daily. HFM causes a significant reduction in systolic blood pressure (SBP) and DBP within 4 weeks compared both with baseline and propranolol (SBP 143.7 +/- 12.3 vs 158.1 +/- 10.9mmHg, P < 0.05; DBP 92.0 +/- 4.5 vs 102.4 +/- 5.1mmHg, P < 0.05), (SBP 143.7 +/- 12.2 vs 152 +/- 11.0mmHg P < 0.05; DBP 92.0 +/- 4.5 vs 101.1 +/- 6.1mmHg, P < 0.05), respectively. Propranolol produced no significant difference from the baseline at 4 weeks (SBP 152.0 +/- H.0 vs 154.1 +/- 11.5mmHg NS; DBP 101.1 +/- 6.1 vs 102.2 +/- 5.6mmHg, NS). Reduction in BP by HFM was maintained after 8 and 12 weeks with further reduction but which did not achieve statistical significance. Increased dose of propranolol (160mg daily) after 4 weeks caused significant reduction in BP by 8 week (SBP 146.8 +/- 11.8 vs 152.0 +/- 11.0mmHg, P < 0.05; DBP 95.9 +/- 4.4 vs 101.1 +/- 6.1mmHg P < 0.05), which was maintained upto 12 weeks. The values however remained higher than in the HFM group. More patients in the HFM group achieved target BP (< 140/90), SBP 53.8% vs 29.6% P < 0.05, DBP 69.2% vs 14.8% P < 0.01. Incidence of side effects was similar and will be discussed. Thiazides are superior to B'blockers as initial monotherapy in black hypertensives.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8307623
We investigated the involvement of loci on the sex chromosomes in the hypertension of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) by studying male F1 and F2 generation rats derived from reciprocal crosses of SHR with Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats (cross 1: WKY female x SHR male; cross 2: SHR female x WKY male). At 16 weeks of age there was no significant difference in the blood pressures of F1 animals derived from the two crosses. Similarly, in the F2 generation there was no significant difference in either indirect blood pressures measured at 12, 16, or 20 weeks of age or in direct systolic and diastolic blood pressures measured at 25 weeks of age between animals derived from the two crosses maintained on a normal salt diet. In a second study, cohorts of F2 rats from the two crosses were given 1% salt in their drinking water for 10 weeks from 16 weeks of age with indirect blood pressure measurements at 16 (presalt), 18, and 20 weeks and direct blood pressure measurements at 26 weeks. Although overall these animals had significantly higher blood pressures at both 20 and 26 weeks than animals of the first study, again there was no difference in blood pressures of animals derived from the two crosses, apart from a marginally significantly higher blood pressure at 18 weeks in animals from cross 1 (with SHR grandfather). The findings indicate that the sex chromosomes of the SHR and WKY rat used in these crosses do not contain loci where alleles differentially influence blood pressure under the genetic milieu provided by the cross.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8522409
We measured left ventricular volume in 70 asymptomatic patients after first Q-wave anterior myocardial infarction in order to determine whether ventricular dilatation occurs and whether there is evidence for its attenuation or prevention by treatment with captopril or xamoterol--PRevention Of VEntricular Dilatation?: the PROVED? study. 77% of patients received thrombolytic treatment. Patients were randomised a mean of 11 days after infarction to receive either captopril 25 mg three times daily, xamoterol 200 mg twice daily or matching placebo. After 6 months of treatment, 6 patients from the placebo group (n = 24), 1 from the captopril group (n = 23) and 3 from the xamoterol group (n = 23) had been withdrawn from the study because of clinical complications. Left ventricular volume was measured using magnetic resonance imaging, before randomisation and after 6 months of treatment. Changes in left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volume after 6 months of treatment were defined prospectively as the primary endpoints. Mean initial end-diastolic volume index was 85 (S.D. 19) ml/m2, mean end-systolic volume index was 45 (S.D. 18) ml/m2, and mean ejection fraction was 48 (S.D. 11)% for the whole group. There was no significant change in left ventricular volume index in the placebo or either treatment group after 6 months of treatment. Only minimal left ventricular dilatation was evident at 11 days. No further increase in left ventricular volume occurred after six months and there was no additional benefit from treatment with either captopril or xamoterol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8532943
Calcium channel blockers have been wide and successfully used in the treatment of coronary heart disease. Gallopamil, a metoxylic derivative of verapamil, has many of its properties and so, caution is recommended when given to patients with depressed left ventricular function. Clinical studies about this effect are scarce, and we have assessed it in patients with coronary heart disease and diminished left ventricular function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8535541
This study compared the effects on blood pressure and some metabolic variables of a 3-month period addition therapy of urapidil or metoprolol in 273 hypertensive non-responders to nifedipine sustained release (SR) monotherapy. This was a randomised, open-label, controlled, parallel-group comparative study, followed by another 3-month period during which all patients received the combination nifedipine SR-urapidil independently of the treatment they were previously randomized to. Both treatments caused significant falls in systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) when compared with the nifedipine SR monotherapy phase. The addition of urapidil to nifedipine SR caused a significant blood pressure reduction of 16.6/13.6 mmHg (p < 0.001), whereas after metoprolol the decrease was of 15.1/14 mmHg (p < 0.001). While in the overall population there was no statistically significant difference between the reduction caused by the two antihypertensive agents added to nifedipine SR, significant differences (DBP, p < 0.05; SBP, p < 0.01) were observed in the group of 51 patients aged at least 60 years. Total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol were significantly reduced (p < 0.001) after the addition of urapidil to nifedipine SR, while, on the contrary, the addition of metoprolol to nifedipine SR was followed by a significant rise (p = 0.001). The changes caused by the two agents were statistically different among them (p < 0.01). The non-atherogenic HDL-cholesterol did not change during the addition of urapidil or metoprolol to nifedipine SR, while, the HDL/total cholesterol ratio was significantly increased after the addition of urapidil (p < 0.01) and unmodified after the addition of metoprolol. Between-group analysis showed a significant difference (p = 0.005). Serum triglycerides did not change in the urapidil plus nifedipine SR group but significantly increased in the metoprolol plus nifedipine SR group (p < 0.001); between-group difference was not statistically significant. Plasma glucose was unchanged after the addition of urapidil whereas it was significantly (p < 0.001) increased in the metoprolol-added group with a between-group difference statistically significant (p < 0.05). When metoprolol was substituted by urapidil during the second 3-month period, the negative effects on glucose, total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides were abolished while in the group already treated with urapidil plus nifedipine SR the favourable effects of urapidil plus nifedipine SR on total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and HDL/total cholesterol ratio were significantly increased compared with the end of the first 3-month treatment. The results of this study show that when urapidil and metoprolol are added to non-responders to nifedipine SR therapy there is a clinically and statistically relevant blood pressure reduction with both agents, with a therapeutic advantage for the combination urapidil + nifedipine SR in patients more than 60 years old. Moreover, the addition of urapidil was associated with a more favourable effect on serum lipids and glucose than that produced by the addition of metoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8535552
The effects on blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR), at rest and during bicycle exercise, of the vascular selective calcium antagonist felodipine, the cardio-selective beta-blocker metoprolol, and of the two drugs in combination, were assessed in a double-blind, three-way cross-over study comprising 23 patients with essential, mild to moderate hypertension. All three treatment regimens were given to each patient in randomised order for 4 weeks after a 4 week placebo run-in period. Felodipine 10-20 mg daily, metoprolol 100-200 mg daily and the combination of felodipine 10-20 mg plus metoprolol 100 mg daily were all effective antihypertensive treatments both at rest and during exercise. The two drugs seemed to have additive effects and the effect on BP of the combination was greater than that of either drug given as monotherapy. The mean sitting BP was 148/103 mmHg at randomisation, after 4 weeks of placebo treatment, and 134/88, 134/94 and 121/84 mmHg, respectively, after 4 weeks' treatment with felodipine, metoprolol and the combination. Maximal exercise capacity was similar irrespective of treatment regimen, and the normal response to exercise BP and HR was maintained during all active treatments. Changes observed in volume regulatory hormones (PRA, aldosterone and ANP) were consistent with a direct tubular natriuretic-diuretic effect of felodipine and of beta-blocker attenuated release of renin. All treatment regimens were well tolerated and adverse events reported were usually mild and transient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8546341
Much evidence indicates an involvement of the sympathetic nervous system in the genesis of silent myocardial ischemia. The authors assessed autonomic system activity by power spectrum analysis of heart rate variability in 21 elderly hypertensive men with and without angiographically confirmed coronary artery disease and compared the results with those from an age-matched control group. In the analysis an autoregressive algorithm was used to determine the power spectrum from an electrocardiographic recording of 512 consecutive RR intervals. The autonomic nervous system induces two distinct sinusoids: a low-frequency signal attributable to sympathetic activity and a high-frequency vagal response. In the hypertensive patients with coronary disease the authors also evaluated sympathetic activation after double-blind, placebo-controlled administration of metoprolol (100 mg/day), followed by amlodipine (10 mg/day), quinapril (20 mg/day), and amlodipine (5 mg/day) plus quinapril (10 mg/day).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8550251
beta-Adrenoceptor blocking agents impair endurance exercise performance in healthy subjects and in patients with hypertension. A possible explanation for the reduced exercise tolerance is a diminished availability of plasma non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) for energy production during exercise. This study investigated the effect of beta-adrenoceptor blockade on NEFA uptake of exercising skeletal muscle at elevated blood NEFA concentrations. In 11 healthy volunteers a triacylglycerol emulsion was infused at increasing rate for 1 hour before and 1 hour during one-armed cranking exercise at 60% Wpeak with and without prior administration of the beta 1+2-adrenoceptor blocking agent propranolol (80 mg per os). Arteriovenous concentration differences of NEFA across the active forearm were measured and forearm blood flow was estimated using venous occlusion plethysmography. Heart rate and blood flow were significantly lower after propranolol (p < 0.05). Propranolol did not affect arterial NEFA concentration, arteriovenous NEFA difference or NEFA flux significantly. Net NEFA uptake increased with increasing arterial NEFA concentration or inflow in a similar manner with and without prior propranolol administration. Therefore, the results do not support the hypothesis that beta-adrenergic activity plays a role in the regulation of active skeletal muscle NEFA uptake under the conditions studied.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8550773
The aim of the study was to investigate whether inhibition of gastric emptying of meals plays a role in the mechanism of the blood glucose-lowering action of glucagon-like peptide-1-(7-36) amide [GLP-1-(7-36) amide] in type 2 diabetes. Eight poorly controlled type 2 diabetic patients (age, 58 +/- 6 yr; body mass index, 30.0 +/- 5.2 kg/m2; hemoglobin A1c, 10.5 +/- 1.2%) were studied in the fasting state (plasma glucose, 11.1 +/- 1.1 mmol/L). A liquid meal of 400 mL containing 8% amino acids and 50 g sucrose (327 Kcal) was administered at time zero by a nasogastric tube. Gastric volume was determined by a dye dilution technique using phenol red. In randomized order, GLP-1-(7-36) amide (1.2 pmol/kg.min; Saxon Biochemicals) or placebo (0.9% NaCl with 1% human serum albumin) was infused between -30 and 240 min. In the control experiment, gastric emptying was completed within 120 min, and plasma glucose, insulin, C-peptide, GLP-1-(7-36) amide, and glucagon concentrations transiently increased. With exogenous GLP-1-(7-36) amide (plasma level, approximately 70 pmol/L), gastric volume remained constant over the period it was measured (120 min; P < 0.0001 vs. placebo), and plasma glucose fell to normal fasting values (5.4 +/- 0.7 mmol/L) within 3-4 h, whereas insulin was stimulated in most, but not all, patients, and glucagon remained at the basal level or was slightly suppressed. In conclusion, GLP-1-(7-36) amide inhibits gastric emptying in type 2 diabetic patients. Together with the stimulation of insulin and the inhibition of glucagon secretion, this effect probably contributes to the blood glucose-lowering action of GLP-1-(7-36) amide in type 2-diabetic patients when studied after meal ingestion. At the degree observed, inhibition of gastric emptying, however, must be overcome by tachyphylaxis, reduction in dose, or pharmacological interventions so as not to interfere with the therapeutic use of GLP-1-(7-36) amide in type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8553333
The effect of alpha 1 adrenoceptor blockade (doxazosin, 4 mg daily) on maximal oxygen uptake (VO2 max) and physical endurance capacity in 16 mildly hypertensive, athletic men was investigated in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, two-period of 4 weeks, cross-over study. The maximal work load obtained during graded bicycle ergometer exercise and the VO2 max were reduced by 16 +/- 3 W (mean +/- SE) and 3 +/- 1 ml x kg-1 x min-1 on doxazosin (p < 0.001 for both), and the running time on 5000 m track increased by 43 +/- 12 sec (p < 0.05). Thus, alpha 1-blockade moderately reduces VO2 max and physical endurance capacity in mildly hypertensive athletic men. However, lower systolic blood pressure (9 +/- 4 mm Hg, p < 0.05) immediately after running, and unchanged heart rate suggest a safer performance of exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8554206
To report the progress (after 9-year follow-up) of a study designed to determine whether improved glucose control in patients with newly diagnosed non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) is effective in reducing the incidence of clinical complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8556689
Atherosclerosis is the leading cause of coronary heart disease among older persons. With an increasing elderly population, cardiovascular disease has become an urgent public health concern. Diet plays an important role in atherogenesis with known beneficial effects on major risk factors among the younger population--cholesterol, hypertension, and diabetes. Intervention studies are needed to establish the benefits of diet therapy in the elderly segment of the population. Efforts are also needed to educate the elderly and health professionals about the benefits of a healthy Step I diet.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8557899
This study was designed to investigate whether combination therapy with metoprolol and nifedipine provides a greater anti-ischemic effect than does monotherapy in individual patients with stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8562234
This study examines the acute effects of two differing beta adrenergic blocking agents (metoprolol and a third generation vasodilating beta blocker) on plasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), brain (ventricular) natriuretic factor (BNF), and haemodynamic variables in patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8568162
The aim of the study was to compare 2 combinations of eye drops containing 2% carteolol and 2% pilocarpine: LCM 1010: ready to use eye drops CBS 341A: eye drops to be reconstituted (freeze-dried powder + solvent).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8572849
The mid frequency component (MFC = 66-128 mHz) of blood pressure is an index of sympathetic vascular control. To investigate the effect of bisoprolol (B) and ramipril (R) treatment (TT) on the short-term variability of systolic blood pressure (SBP) diastolic blood pressure (DPB) and heart rate (HR) reactivity during mental stress, we studied 54 mild essential untreated hypertensive patients (24 men, 45 +/- 9.6 years, BP > 160/90 mmHg after a 15-days placebo run-in period) who were randomly assigned to double blind treatment (B: 10 mg/day: n = 28 and R: 5 mg/day: n = 26). A Stroop Word Color Conflict Test (SWCCT) was performed before and after 2 months of treatment. Hemodynamic parameters (BP and HR) were measured by a non invasive device (Finapres 2300E, Ohmeda-Maurepas) and underwent spectral analysis (SBP: mmHg.Hz-1/2, HR: beats/min.Hz-1/2, Anapres 1.2, Notocord-Orgametrie Systems, Igny-Lille) at rest and during SWCCT. The sympathetic vascular activity was assessed by calculating the area of the mid-frequency component (MFC = 66-128 Hz).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8573224
The hemodynamic effects of celiprolol (CAS 56980-93-9), a betablocker with beta 1 antagonist and beta 2 agonist properties, were compared with those of atenolol (CAS 29122-68-7) in 12 patients with mild to moderately severe hypertension (diastolic BP 95-110 mmHg). Celiprolol and atenolol lead to a similar and significant reduction of systolic and diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.005). However, with celiprolol heart rate at rest was significantly less depressed then with atenolol (p = 0.004) and showed a distinctly less pronounced depression of heart rate with exercise (p = 0.004). Cardiac output at rest was reduced by 19% under atenolol, but was increased by 9% under celiprolol treatment; in this respect, the two medications differed significantly (p = 0.03). The adaptation of heart rate and cardiac output to exercise was better with celipropol as compared to atenolol treatment. The difference between arm arterial pressure and ankle occlusion pressure at rest was not significantly influenced by atenolol, whereas celiprolol treatment increased this difference by a mean of up to 16 mmHg (p = 0.009). This different effect on peripheral arterial circulation was even more pronounced after exercise. Both celiprolol and atenolol increased blood cell flow velocity in the nailfold capillaries, but this increases was statistically only significant with celiprolol (p = 0.047). These results demonstrate that the hemodynamic effects of celiprolol were significantly different from those of atenolol; celiprolol produces less bradycardia, increases cardiac output at rest and decreases peripheral arterial resistance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8573993
Celiprolol is a beta 1-selective adrenoceptor antagonist (beta-blocker) which acts as a weak agonist at beta 2-adrenoceptors. The drug demonstrates vasodilator properties and does not depress heart rate to the same extent as propranolol, atenolol or metoprolol. Celiprolol has shown equivalent antihypertensive efficacy to other beta-blockers, notably propranolol, atenolol, metoprolol and pindolol, in patients aged 18 to 75 years with mild to moderate essential hypertension. The drug has also shown similar antihypertensive efficacy to the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and to combination diuretic therapy with hydrochlorothiazide and amiloride. Celiprolol was equally effective in adult patients of all ages, although no data are available for patients aged over 75 years. Data from a small number of clinical trials indicate celiprolol to be as effective as both propranolol and atenolol in improving work capacity and reducing the frequency of anginal attacks in patients with stable effort angina. However, the drug has not yet been evaluated in postmyocardial infarction patients. Celiprolol offers advantages over other beta-blockers, including reduction of peripheral vascular resistance and maintenance of resting heart rate, cardiac output and renal perfusion. The drug is also associated with improvements in plasma lipid profiles and does not appear to adversely affect carbohydrate metabolism or lung function, although its use in patients with reversible obstructive pulmonary disease is not recommended. Celiprolol is therefore a highly cardioselective beta-blocker with ancillary characteristics which are potentially useful in patients with hypertension and angina complicated by other conditions commonly associated with advanced age. These include impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease and hyperlipidaemia. The drug may also be preferred to other beta-blockers in patients in whom a reduction in heart rate would be particularly undesirable. Further long term (> 12 months) clinical trials and pharmacoeconomic data are now required to confirm the clinical relevance of the pharmacodynamic advantages of celiprolol therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8574724
Patients with liver cirrhosis and large oesophageal varices run a high risk of digestive haemorrhage due to the rupture of oesophageal varices, an event associated with a high mortality. At present, the only treatment for the prevention of first bleeding from oesophageal varices on which there is general agreement is drug-based. In order to tailor drug treatment to the requirements of individual patients more precisely, an ever-increasing number of drugs is being investigated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8575234
The effects of perindopril and metoprolol on left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and function were studied in 47 essential hypertensive patients with LVH. Previous antihypertensive drugs were discontinued for at least 2 weeks, after which patients were randomly divided into 2 groups. 25 subjects were treated with perindopril 4 to 8 mg once daily in the morning (Group A) and 22 subjects with metoprolol 25 to 62.5 mg twice daily (Group B). The subjects were evaluated before and after 4 and 8 weeks of treatment by use of echocardiography. Before treatment LV mass indexes (LVMI) of two groups were respectively 143.2 +/- 21.3 g/m2 and 140.6 +/- 23.7 g/m2 (P > 0.05). In Group A, reduction of LVMI occurred after 4 weeks of treatment, and more pronounced after 8 weeks (from 143.2 +/- 21.3 g/m2 to 126.6 +/- 15.3 g/m2, P < 0.001), whereas reduction of LVMI occurred only after 8 weeks in Group B (from 140.6 +/- 23.7 g/m2 to 133.4 +/- 13.2 g/m2, P < 0.001). In addition, there was a significant (P < 0.05) difference in LVMI between the two groups after 8 weeks. LV systolic function remained unchanged, whereas E/A increased significantly (P < 0.001) in two groups after 8 weeks. In conclusion, antihypertensive treatment with perindopril and metoprolol induced a significant regression of LVH associated with improvement in LV diastolic performance. Perindopril, compared with metoprolol, was more effective in reversing LVH.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8576893
We randomised ambulatory men with diastolic blood pressure (BP) 95-109 mmHg without anti-hypertensive medication to single drug treatment with either hydrochlorothiazide 12.5-50 mg/day, atenolol 25-100 mg/day, captopril 25-100 mg/day, clonidine 0.2-0.6 mg/day, diltiazem-SR 120-360 mg/day, prazosin 4-20 mg/day or placebo in a double-blind prospective trial. The assigned drug was titrated to a goal BP of < 90 mm Hg. Patients not achieving goal BP were rerandomised to an alternative single active drug. Non-responders to the second drug received the first drug in combination with the second. Of the 102 non-responders to both drugs who qualified for the combination, 59 (57.8%) responded. The combination pairs that included a diuretic achieved diastolic goal BP in 69% and < 140 mm Hg systolic in 77% compared with 51% and 46%, respectively, for those combinations without a diuretic (P = 0.067; P = 0.002). Six of the eight terminations due to adverse drug reactions were in combinations containing prazosin; three of these six were hypotensive reactions. We conclude that two single drugs of insufficient efficacy to control BP individually have a high probability of achieving goal BP when combined, especially if the combination contains a diuretic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8579030
Plasma levels of endothelin-1 are elevated in patients with chronic heart failure; however, it is unknown whether changes in plasma endothelin-1 levels accurately reflect clinical response to therapy in these patients. To determine this, we measured plasma endothelin-1 in addition to functional, hemodynamic, and other neurohormonal parameters as part of a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the beta-blocker vasodilator carvedilol in patients with moderate to severe chronic heart failure. Patients were assigned (2:1 randomization) to receive carvedilol (25 mg twice daily, n = 10) or placebo (n = 5) for 14 weeks, with evaluations made before and after therapy. Compared to patients receiving placebo, patients receiving carvedilol improved significantly as assessed by the parameters described. These changes were paralleled by significant falls in endothelin-1 with carvedilol (-2.1 + 3.8 pg/ml) in comparison to placebo (2.2 + 3.9 pg/ml; p < 0.05 for between-group differences). Changes in endothelin-1 after treatment in both groups correlated significantly with changes in symptom severity, New York Heart Association class, 6-minute walk distance (r = 0.64 to 0.80; p < 0.05), hemodynamic parameters (ejection fraction, right atrial pressure, pulmonary artery diastolic pressure, pulmonary wedge pressure, right atrial pressure, and stroke volume index; r = 0.54 to 0.86; p < 0.05), and neurohormonal parameters (serum aldosterone and plasma norepinephrine (r = 0.74 to 0.76; p < 0.05). By stepwise regression analysis, change in endothelin-1 was an independent, noninvasive predictor of functional and hemodynamic responses to therapy in these patients. These findings suggest that endothelin-1 accurately reflects functional, hemodynamic, and neurohormonal responses to beta-blocker therapy in patients with congestive heart failure. Measurement of endothelin-1 may therefore be a useful, noninvasive approach to the evaluation of clinical response to drug therapy in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8580671
The use of the non-selective beta-blocker propranolol has been widely recommended to prevent gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with portal hypertension. We conducted a prospective, randomized controlled trial of metoprolol, a selective beta-blocker for prevention of gastrointestinal bleeding from portal hypertension in 29 non-selected patients with liver disease and previous gastrointestinal bleeding. Fifteen patients received placebo treatment for 40 +/- 18 months and 14 patients received metoprolol for 31 +/- 17 months. A sustained reduction in resting pulse was observed in those patients treated with metoprolol. There was no significant difference in acute re-bleeding episodes between the two groups. Of the 14 patients treated with metoprolol, three (21%) re-bled, all three requiring blood transfusion. Four (26.5%) of the 15 patients treated with the placebo re-bled, two cases with acute bleeding and the remaining two cases presented a positive stool guaiac test. All cases who bled during the metoprolol therapy required exclusion from the trial, and surgical procedures or sclerotherapy as well. After both metoprolol or placebo treatments, similar deterioration of standard liver function tests was observed. Further, at the end of the trial, 11 patients on metoprolol (78%) and four of the patients treated with the placebo (27%) required treatment for clinical portal-systemic encephalopathy (p < 0.01). The risk of poor sympathomimetic response after cardioselective beta 1-blocker during acute bleeding episodes and the appearance of hepatic encephalopathy deserve further investigation. The selective beta-blocker metoprolol seems to be an inadequate choice to prevent gastrointestinal re-bleeding in patients with portal hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8586825
To assess the equivalence of four antihypertensive treatments in patients with mild-to- moderate hypertension, and to compare the effects of those drugs on the subjective quality of life and clinical safety.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8590535
Silent ischemia is a frequent finding in patients with unstable angina and portends a poor prognosis. We compared the efficacy of sustained-release (SR) verapamil and metoprolol in reducing silent ischemia in patients with unstable angina and assessed whether detection of silent ischemia was related to unfavorable outcomes in the contemporary setting of concurrent therapy with heparin and aspirin. Holter monitoring (leads a VF, V2, V5) for the first 72 h was used to assess the frequency and duration of ST-shift episodes. There were 37 patients in the verapamil-SR group and 40 patients in the metoprolol group, with both groups having similar baseline characteristics. There were more episodes of angina in the verampamil-SR group (29 vs. 12, p = 0.05). There was no difference between the two groups in the frequency (51 vs. 49 episodes, p = 0.9) or duration (23 +/- 48 vs. 18 +/- 50 min, p = 0.6) of ST-shift episodes. There were 20 unfavorable in-hospital outcomes distributed equally between the two groups (p = 0.9). Patients with unfavorable outcomes had ST shift more often (50 vs. 28%, p = 0.07) and for a longer duration (40 +/- 69 vs. 13 +/- 38 min, p = 0.03). Patients with ST shift > or = 60 min had a 60% probability of unfavorable outcome compared with 33% for ST shift of 1-59 min duration and 20% for no ST shift (p = 0.04). We conclude that metoprolol appears to reduce symptoms better than verapamil-SR, but no difference in silent ischemia or unfavorable outcomes was seen. Silent ischemia remains a common occurrence in these patients despite heparin and aspirin therapy and its detection continues to have prognostic value.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8600607
The metabolic effects of captopril 25 mg twice daily and atenolol 50 mg daily on glucose, insulin and lipids were compared in 83 otherwise healthy mild-to-moderate hypertensive between the ages of 25 and 60 years in a randomised double-blind trial. Hourly glucose and insulin levels were measured during a 2-hour 75 g oral glucose tolerance test at baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment. Lipid profiles including total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, HDL2, HDL3, triglycerides, apoprotein (Apo)A1, ApoB, and Apo(a) were obtained before and after the treatment period. Blood pressure decreased significantly and equivalently in both treatment groups. The glucose and insulin levels and glucose x insulin product at 2 hours after the glucose load increased after 12 weeks of treatment with atenolol compared with the baseline values, but these parameters all decreased after the treatment period with captopril compared with their baseline values. These results indicate an improvement in insulin sensitivity with captopril and a deterioration with atenolol. HDL-cholesterol and HDL3 decreased in the atenolol group but increased in the captopril group. We conclude that captopril has more favourable effects than atenolol on glucose, insulin and lipid metabolism in the treatment of mild-to-moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8602055
Calcium antagonists are used frequently in management of hypertension. In addition to their cardiovascular effects, these drugs inhibit platelet aggregation. Therefore we examined whether the use of calcium antagonists was associated with an increased risk of gastrointestinal haemorrhage (GIH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8604962
To determine the relationship between increasing depressive symptoms and cardiovascular events or mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8605839
To discover whether in hypertensives with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) the increased muscle mass will completely regress under antihypertensive treatment and drug dosage can in consequence be reduced.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8607401
The effect of quinapril or metoprolol on heart rate variability (HRV) indexes was studied in patients who had recovered from acute myocardial infarction. Patients with stable coronary artery disease and normal volunteers were used as controls. Sixty patients with uncomplicated myocardial infarction (aged 32 to 74 years [mean 56.7]) were randomized to quinapril (n = 25), metoprolol (n = 25), and placebo (n = 10). HRV was assessed 5 days (baseline) and 35 days after the onset of acute myocardial infarction. After the baseline studies, the post-myocardial infarction patients were treated with metoprolol (50 to 100 mg/day), quinapril (5 to 10 mg/day), or placebo. Twenty patients with stable coronary artery disease and 20 healthy volunteers, age- and sex-matched to myocardial infarction patients, were used as controls. Compared with placebo, quinapril and metoprolol increased HRV indexes significantly 35 days after the onset of myocardial infarction. HRV indexes were not statistically different between the 2 treatment groups. At baseline and after therapy, HRV was similar in patients with anterior or inferior wall myocardial infarction. HRV 35 days after the onset of myocardial infarction was not different from HRV in patients with stable coronary artery disease, but was decreased when compared with that in normal volunteers. Data suggest that quinapril has the same beneficial effect on HRV indexes as metoprolol in patients who have recovered from uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8607723
To explore the sex-specific benefits and risks of treatment of stage 1 diastolic hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8608285
To establish whether initiation of treatment with diuretic or beta blocker is associated over 54 months with change in cognitive function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8608620
Previous reports have suggested that an attenuated exercise heart rate response may be associated with coronary heart disease risk and with mortality. These observations may parallel the association between reduced heart rate variability during normal activities and adverse outcome. This investigation was designed to look at the prognostic implications of exercise heart rate response in a population-based sample.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8610612
Analysis of heart rate variability (HRV) provides a non-invasive index of autonomic nervous system activity. HRV has been shown to be reduced in heart failure. Preliminary data indicate that beta blockers improve clinical status in patients with heart failure, but HRV improvement remains to be demonstrated. Fifty-four patients from the randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study were included in the HRV study. The bisoprolol daily dose was 5 mg once daily. We assessed HRV during 24-hour Holter recordings before randomization and after 2 months of treatment. HRV as measured in the time domain by root-mean-square successive differences (rMSSD), the percentage of adjacent RR differences >50 ms (pNN50), and the SD of RR intervals (SDNN), and in the frequency domain by high-frequency (0.16 to 0.40 Hz) and low-frequency (0.04 to 0.15 Hz) power. Most patients were in New York Heart Association functional class III. The mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 27 +/- 7%, and heart failure was idiopathic or ischemic. After 2 months, the patients receiving bisoprolol had a reduced mean heart rate compared with that in placebo patients (p=0.0004). Bisoprolol increased 24-hour rMSSD (p=0.04) and 24-hour pNN50 (p=0.04), daytime SDNN (p=0.05), and daytime high-frequency power (p=0.03) power. Bisoprolol induced a significant increase in HRV parameters related to parasympathetic activity in heart failure. Increased vagal tone may contribute to the protective effect of beta blockers and may have prognostic implications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8614419
Controlled clinical trials have shown that beta-blockers can produce hemodynamic and symptomatic improvement in chronic heart failure, but the effect of these drugs on survival has not been determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8615482
Hemodilution tolerance is not well defined in patients with coronary artery disease receiving beta-adrenergic blockers chronically. Ninety patients scheduled for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery were randomized to a hemodilution (n = 60) and a control group (n = 30). During midazolam-fentanyl anesthesia, hemodynamic variables, ST segment deviation, and O2 consumption were determined prior to and after 6 and 12 mL/kg isovolemic exchange of blood for 6% hydroxyethyl starch. Hemoglobin decreased from 12.6 +/- 0.2 to 9.9 +/- 0.2 g/dL (mean +/- SEM, P < 0.05). With stable filling pressures, cardiac index increased from 2.05 +/- 0.05 to 2.27 +/- 0.05 L.min-1.m-2(P < 0.05) and O2 extraction from 27.4% +/- 0.6% to 31.2% +/- 0.7% (P < 0.05), resulting in stable O2 consumption. No alterations in ST segments were observed in leads II and V5 during hemodilution. Individual increases in cardiac index and O2 extraction were not linearly related to age and left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (P = 0.841, P = 0.799). We conclude that isovolemic hemodilution to a hemoglobin value of 9.9 +/- 0.2 g/dL is well tolerated and fully compensated in patients with coronary artery disease receiving beta-adrenergic blockers chronically. Within the investigated ranges, the compensatory mechanisms during hemodilution are largely independent of age (35-81 yr) and LV ejection fraction (26%-83%).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8621132
The effect of spironolactone on esophageal variceal pressure (VP) in patients without ascites was investigated. VP was assessed using a noninvasive endoscopic gauge. Spironolactone was administered during a 6-week period at a dosage of 100 mg/d. This treatment decreased VP from 16.8 +/- 1.9 (SD) to 14.1 +/- 2.7 mm Hg (P < .001) in a group of 12 patients and from 18.6 +/- 2.1 to 13.7 +/- 4.1 mm Hg (P < .01) in another group of 8 patients who still had high VP despite chronic intake of propranolol. In both groups, placebo administration to 12 and 8 comparable patients did not significantly alter VP. Spironolactone induced a significant reduction of plasma volume (42.1 +/- 5.5 to 36.1 +/- 6.6 mL/kg body weight, P < .01) and of the concentration of alpha-atrial natriuretic peptide (alpha-ANP) (39.8 +/- 22 to 27.7 +/- 20 pg/mL, P < .01); in addition, a pronounced increase in plasma renin activity (PRA) (1.1 +/- 0.9 to 7.5 +/- 3.4 ng/mL/h, P < .001) was induced by the treatment. No significant changes in systemic hemodynamics were observed during the studies. Severe side effects were not observed except for a high incidence (55%) of painful gynecomasty in the male patients. In conclusion, chronic spironolactone administration effectively lowers VP, even in patients under chronic propranolol therapy. The combination of propranolol and spironolactone deserves further study as a prophylactic therapy of variceal hemorrhage, but development of gynecomasty might be a problem. Finally, we confirmed the reproducibility of VP measurements with the noninvasive gauge in chronic conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8621989
Randomized controlled trials are conducted with heterogeneous groups of patients, and the trial results represent an estimate of the average difference in the responses of the treatment groups. Clinicians, however, engage in a process of clinical inquiry, assembling data that will allow an assessment of the appropriate choice of treatment according to more narrowly defined clinical features. We describe a method of clinical inquiry within RCTs that can enhance the applicability of results to clinical decision making. Our methods included the use of data from the Beta-Blocker Heart Attack Trial, which enrolled 3837 subjects in 31 clinical centers. The 31 centers were divided into 21 dominant centers (mortality rates higher for placebo than propranolol) and 10 divergent centers (higher mortality rates for patients randomized to propranolol). Overall, compared to placebo, propranolol reduced the risk of dying for the "average" patient from 9.8 to 7.2%. Results for patients in dominant centers (RR = 0.50) were significantly different from those in divergent centers (RR = 1.33). We identified two cotherapies--aspirin use and coronary artery surgery--that subsequently affected the benefits of propranolol in divergent centers. For patients in divergent centers, propranolol reduced the risk of dying for patients treated with aspirin and/or coronary surgery (RR = 0.39), but not for patients not receiving these therapies (RR = 1.42). We conclude that differences in results across centers of a multicenter RCT may reflect important distinctions in the clinical conditions of enrolled subjects. These distinctions help to identify subgroups of patients in which treatment that has an average overall benefit may be harmful for some patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8622227
To determine the ability of various antihypertensive agents to reduce left ventricular hypertrophy, a strong, blood pressure-independent cardiovascular risk factor, in persons with essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8622245
- To compare long-term plasma lipid changes among 6 antihypertensive treatment interventions for stage I (mild) hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8628357
Patients who have bleeding from esophageal varices are at high risk for rebleeding and death. We compared the efficacy and safety of endoscopic sclerotherapy with the efficacy and safety of nadolol plus isosorbide mononitrate for the prevention of variceal rebleeding.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8629589
There has been growing evidence for the benefits of beta blockers, but alpha blockers have not shown sustained benefits in chronic congestive heart failure (CHF). Thirty patients with moderate to severe CHF (New York Heart Association class II to IV) were sequentially assigned to receive metoprolol 6.25 mg with the alpha-1 antagonist doxazosin 4 mg/day or metoprolol alone. The dose of metoprolol was gradually increased to a target dose of 50 mg orally twice daily. Hemodynamic measurements were obtained before drug therapy, 2 hours after the first dose of combined alpha-beta therapy or metoprolol alone, and after 3 months of continuous treatment. Nuclear ejection fraction, plasma norepinephrine, and submaximal and maximal exercise capacity were also measured before and after chronic therapy. With initial combined drug administration, mean arterial pressure, left ventricular filling pressure, and systemic vascular resistance decreased significantly compared with results after metoprolol alone. However, after 3 months of continuous therapy, both treatment groups showed similar and significant reductions in systemic vascular resistance and heart rate, with significant increases in cardiac index, stroke volume index, stroke work index, ejection fraction, and exercise capacity. Furthermore, the next dose of chronic combined medication no longer showed vasodilating effects. Chronic therapy with fixed-dose doxazosin and increasing doses of metoprolol produced identical effects as those seen in patients receiving metoprolol alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8636540
We evaluated the prevalence and prognostic significance of transient myocardial ischemia despite beta-adrenergic blockade in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8638023
Two recent studies have evaluated the utility of electrophysiologic (EP) testing in the treatment of patients with serious ventricular arrhythmias. The first study compared electrophysiologically guided antiarrhythmic drug therapy with nonguided beta-blocker therapy. Patients without inducible arrhythmias were assigned to oral metoprolol; patients with inducible arrhythmias were randomly assigned to receive either oral metoprolol or EP-guided drug therapy with propafenone, flecainide, disopyramide, sotalol, or amiodarone. Antiarrhythmic drugs were tested in a random order, but amiodarone was always tested last. A total of 170 patients were evaluated; 115 patients had inducible arrhythmias, and 61 patients were randomly assigned to serial drug testing, 54 to metoprolol without invasive testing, and the remainder who were noninducible to empiric metoprolol. The best outcome was observed in patients without inducible arrhythmias, all of whom received metoprolol. There was no difference in outcome between the two groups with inducible arrhythmias, either treated with metoprolol or with EP-guided serial antiarrhythmic drug testing. The second study evaluated survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation (VF) without new myocardial infarction. Patients received assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction, Holter monitoring (HM), and EP testing. Only patients with inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmias or with sufficient ambulatory ventricular ectopy were included in the study. Therapy was randomized either to empiric amiodarone or conventional drug therapy guided by EP testing and/or HM. A total of 228 patients were treated, 113 with amiodarone and 115 with conventional antiarrhythmic drug therapy. The composite primary end points were total mortality, documented out-of-hospital resuscitation from recurrent VF, or syncopal implantable cardioverter/defibrillator shock followed by return of consciousness. Patients treated with empiric amiodarone had a better outcome than did patients treated with guided conventional drug therapy. In those patients in whom an implantable cardioverter/defibrillator was used, patients treated with amiodarone had fewer total shocks and fewer syncopal shocks than did patients treated with conventional therapy. Patients with a history of out-of-hospital VF or sustained ventricular tachycardia without inducible ventricular arrhythmias at EP study have the best outcome. Empiric metoprolol is equivalent to conventional antiarrhythmic drug therapy guided by EP testing. Empiric amiodarone is superior to conventional antiarrhythmic drug therapy guided by HM and/or EP testing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8640972
Scottish MONICA used medical and medico-legal records and World Health Organization MONICA Project criteria to register coronary events in 25- to 64-year-old residents of the high-incidence area of north Glasgow from 1985 to 1991.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8641743
The combination of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and a calcium antagonist has a synergistic effect in patients with more severe hypertension. However, when this combination fails to control blood pressure, it is not clear which drug is then additive. The aim of this work was to study in a double-blind, randomized, crossover design the effect on blood pressure of the addition of either a thiazide diuretic (bendrofluazide, 5 mg once daily) or a beta-blocker (atenolol, 100 mg once daily) or placebo each for a month in hypertensive patients who are not adequately controlled on the combined treatment of amlodipine 5 mg once daily and lisinopril 5 mg twice daily. Eighteen patients with a supine diastolic pressure of more than 90 mm Hg after at least 1 month on the combined treatment of amlodipine and lisinopril were enrolled in the study. The results show that in patients whose blood pressures are not controlled by the combination of amlodipine and lisinopril, the addition of bendrofluazide 5 mg once daily causes a significant fall in blood pressure compared with placebo and a significantly greater fall than 100 mg atenolol once daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8642189
Protacyclin biosynthesis was investigated in 133 untreated newly diagnosed patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension. Urinary excretion of 6-oxo-prostaglandin F1 alpha and of 2,3-dinor-6-oxo-prostaglandin F1 alpha, stable breakdown products of prostacyclin, was measured following a 1 month run-in period. To determine whether lowering blood pressure (BP) influenced prostacyclin biosynthesis, 106 consenting patients with diastolic pressure 90-120 mm Hg were allocated randomly to treatment with bendrofluazide, metoprolol, quinapril or amlodipine in an open parallel group design. Dose was increased to reduce diastolic arterial pressure to <90 mm Hg. Terazosin was added if this target BP was not achieved, and its dose increased if necessary. Urinary excretion rates of prostaglandins were measured after 1 year in patients in whom the target diastolic pressure was achieved. Mean arterial pressure varied from 106-168 mm Hg in untreated patients and excretion of both prostacyclin-derived products varied from <5 to >350 ng/g creatinine. Arterial pressure and prostaglandin excretion were not significantly correlated. In 57 patients in whom target pressure was achieved, BP before treatment was 166 +/- 2/100 +/- 1 at baseline and 144 +/- 2/86 +/- 1 mm Hg at 1 year. Excretion rates of each prostacyclin-derived product were similar before treatment and at 1 year, with no significant differences between the drugs. These findings do not support the hypothesis that deficient prostacyclin biosynthesis contributes to the pathogenesis of essential hypertension, or that increased prostacyclin biosynthesis plays a part in the response to treatment with antihypertensive medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8643883
We consider clinical trials in which information is available about subjects' treatment changes after randomization. To understand whether any difference between randomized groups in the intention-to-treat analysis can be explained by such treatment changes, we need analysis strategies which take account of treatment actually received. Selection bias is then a potentially serious problem. We relate risk in a time-dependent proportional hazards model to current treatment, with treatment combinations coded in two alternative ways. To reduce selection bias, treatment history (number of treatments dropped) and baseline covariates can be added to the model. Including current risk markers would also reduce selection bias but makes interpretation difficult. The methods are illustrated using data from the British Medical Research Council (MRC) elderly hypertension trial, with time to cardiovascular death as an outcome. Results for the comparison of diuretic and beta-blocker treatment are similar in all analyses, suggesting that selection bias is small and adding support to the hypothesis that the observed treatment differences are due to the randomized treatments themselves.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8644056
The renin-angiotensin system, through the effects of angiotensin II, may be involved in the pathogenesis of essential hypertension and associated left ventricular hypertrophy. Treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition (ACEI) lowers blood pressure and reduces left ventricular hypertrophy. ACEI, however, may not completely inhibit the production of angiotensin II and its effects, and adverse effects like cough and rise in creatinine have been associated with ACEI and reduced degradation of bradykinin. The first selective antagonist of the angiotensin II-1 (AT1) receptor, losartan, has recently been approved. The LIFE study has been started, in which 8,300 hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy in Scandinavia and the USA will be randomized to blinded treatment with either atenolol or losartan to compare the effects on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over a period of five years.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8651108
We concluded that low-dose beta-adrenergic blocking agents are beneficial in the treatment of patients with ischemic or idiopathic cardiomyopathy. Low-dose beta blockers appear to improve NYHA functional class and LVEF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8656168
Atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries is the most common cause of death in the United States for persons over the age of 45. Dyslipidemia is one of the risk factors for the development of coronary atherosclerosis. Recent studies suggest that treating dyslipidemia in persons with coronary atherosclerosis may decrease morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8656666
We assessed the effects of 6 months of treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (cilazapril) or a beta 1-adrenergic blocker (atenolol) on aortic stiffness in essential hypertension. Forty patients (16 women) aged 47 +/- 9 years (mean +/- SD) with baseline systolic and diastolic blood pressures of 162 +/- 15 and 105 +/- 5 mm Hg, respectively, were entered into a double-blind, parallel-group study with cilazapril, 5 mg once daily, or atenolol, 100 mg once daily. The treatment period was preceded by a 4-week placebo washout phase. Aortic elastic modulus (Ep) was determined by cine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and indirect brachial artery blood pressure measurements prior to and after 3 weeks and 6 months of therapy. The reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressures from baseline to 6 months averaged -17 +/- 13 and -10 +/- 6 mm Hg, respectively, with cilazapril and -23 +/- 16 and -14 +/- 6 mm Hg with atenolol. Concomitantly, Ep of the ascending aorta decreased with cilazapril from a median of 2,234 10(3)dyn/cm2 (interquartile range, 866-3,740) to 868 10(3)dyn/cm2 (515-1,486) and with atenolol from a median of 1,611 10(3)dyn/cm2 (895-2,790) to 1,054 10(3)dyn/cm2 (616-1,860). In repeated-measurements analysis of variance, the change in Ep with time was statistically significant (p < 0.001) but the group x time interaction was not. We conclude that 6 months of treatment with either cilazapril or atenolol reduces the stiffness of the ascending aorta in essential hypertension. No statistically significant differences between the effects of the two drugs were observed. The mechanisms and clinical significance of improved aortic distensibility with antihypertensive therapy deserve further study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8659199
Ninety patients with chronic ischemic heart disease and stage IIb peripheral arterial occlusive disease were investigated to determine the effect of celiprolol, atenolol and isosorbide dinitrate on peripheral arterial blood flow. Walking distance and the resistance index in the femoral artery were measured before and after 3 months medication and compared with the findings in controls (30 patients with chronic ischemic heart disease and stage IIb peripheral arterial occlusive disease) who received placebo. Patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease who were treated with atenolol 50 mg/day demonstrated significant decreases in both pain-free and maximal walking distance. In contrast, the walking distances in those given celiprolol 200 mg/day and those who received isosorbide dinitrate 80 mg/day did not differ from the distances in control subjects. The Doppler flow through the femoral artery, as measured by color duplex sonography, showed a significant decrease in resistance index, both in patients given celiprolol and in those given isosorbide dinitrate. In patients treated with atenolol the resistance index rose significantly. The results of this study confirm that the beta-adrenoceptor blocker celiprolol exerts a supplementary vasodilatory action resembling that of nitrates and hence can be used in patients with chronic ischemic heart disease and impaired peripheral arterial perfusion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8664529
The clinical significance of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia continues to undergo reevaluation as clinicians attempt to optimize screening strategies for identifying high-risk patients and to evaluate the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. The utility of ambulatory monitoring and programmed stimulation as screening tools in the patient who has suffered an infarction remains unsettled; ongoing clinical trials may help resolve these issues. New data suggest that the survival benefit associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition is unrelated to effects on spontaneous arrhythmias, similar to results previously reported for beta-blockers. Randomized clinical trials of prophylactic amiodarone in patients with congestive heart failure and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia have produced conflicting results. A strong relationship between polymorphic nonsustained ventricular tachycardia and sudden death in patients without structural heart disease or QT prolongation has been reported. The significance of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in dilated cardiomyopathy and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has also been reassessed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8665975
In order to compare the long-term effects on ambulatory blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy of hydralazine and lisinopril we studied 30 patients, all males, still hypertensive (diastolic blood pressure > or = 95 mm Hg) despite combined beta-blocker/diuretic therapy and with echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy (left ventricular mass index > or = 1.31 g.m(-1)). They wer randomized to receive hydralazine slow release 50 mg/ chlorthalidone 12.5 mg) for 6 months. Casual blood pressure, non-invasive ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), M-mode echocardiogram, plasma renin activity and plasma catecholamines were evaluated before the randomization and after 6 months of treatment. Both drugs significantly reduced casual as well as daytime systolic and diastolic blood pressure, without statistical differences between the two treatments. Lisinopril was significantly more effective than hydralazine in reducing night-time systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Plasma norepinephrine was significantly reduced by lisinopril and increased by hydralazine. Left ventricular mass was significantly reduced by lisinopril but not by hydralazine. The results of linear regression and multiple regression analysis suggested that the lisinopril-induced decrease in both day- and night-time blood pressure might account for the regression of left ventricular hypertrophy, whereas the lack of left ventricular hypertrophy regression during hydralazine treatment could be due mainly to the reflex sympathetic activation induced by the drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8667090
To evaluate the effects of an intensive intervention to implement guidelines for cost-effective management of hypertension on medication use and cost, blood pressure control, and other resource use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8673763
Five cases of spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) are reported, three in women and two in men (mean age 44 years; range 28-65), all of whom suffered a myocardial infarction. Common risk factors for coronary artery disease were present in the two men; in the female group one patient was taking an oral contraceptive, one was in the postpartum period, and the third was a smoker. Only the three women received intravenous alteplase and their ejection fraction was normal; both men had impaired left ventricular function. Two patients had SCAD of the left anterior descending coronary artery and three of the right coronary artery. Only the two men had angiographic features of coronary atherosclerotic involvement. No patients required surgical revascularisation or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. At a mean follow up of 27 months (range 6 to 40) all patients were alive and all but one were asymptomatic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8674173
Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) and d,l-sotalol are widely used to treat ventricular tachyarrhythmia and ventricular fibrillation (VT/VF). The purpose of this study was to compare the long-term efficacy of d,l-sotalol and ICDs in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8677865
The benefit of beta-blocker therapy in patients after myocardial infarction is well established. The use of beta blockers in the high-risk subgroup of patients with combined diabetes mellitus (DM) and coronary artery disease (CAD) remains controversial. From a database of 14,417 patients with chronic CAD who had been screened for participation in the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention (BIP) study, 2,723 (19%) had non-insulin-dependent DM. Baseline characteristics and 3-year mortality were analyzed in patients with DM receiving (n = 911; 33%) and not receiving (n = 1,812; 67%) beta blockers. Total mortality during a 3-year follow-up was 7.8% in those receiving beta blockers compared with 14.0% in those who were not (a 44% reduction). A reduction in cardiac mortality of 42% between the 2 groups was also noted. Three-year survival curves showed significant differences in mortality with increasing divergence (p = 0.0001). After multiple adjustment, multivariate analysis identified beta-blocker therapy as a significant independent contributor to improved survival (relative risk = 0.58; 90% confidence interval 0.46 to 0.74). Within the diabetic population, the main benefit associated with beta-blocker therapy was observed in older patients, in those with a history of myocardial infarction, those with limited functional capacity, and those at lower risk. Thus, therapy with beta blockers appears to be associated with improved long-term survival in the high-risk subpopulation of patients with DM and CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8677870
This report focuses on the subset of 235 patients from the Asymptomatic Cardiac Ischemia Pilot (ACIP) study receiving randomly assigned medical therapy to treat angina and suppress ischemia detected on ambulatory electrocardiography: 121 patients received the sequence of atenolol and nifedipine, and 114 diltiazem and isosorbide dinitrate. After 12 weeks of therapy, the primary end point (absence of ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) ischemia and no clinical events) was reached in 47% of atenolol/nifedipine- versus 31% of diltiazem/isosorbide dinitrate-treated patients (adjusted p = 0.03). A trend to increased exercise time to ST depression was seen in the atenolol and nifedipine versus diltiazem and isosorbide dinitrate regimens (median treadmill duration 5.8 vs 4.8 minutes; p = 0.04). However, when adjusted for baseline imbalances in ambulatory ECG ischemia, the 2 medical combinations were similar in suppression of ambulatory ECG ischemia. In both medication regimens, an association between mean heart rate and ischemia on ambulatory electrocardiography after 12 weeks of treatment was observed so that patients on either regimen with a mean heart rate > 80 beats/min had ischemia detectable almost twice as often as those with a mean heart rate < 70 beats/min (p < 0.001).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8680629
Because of previously reported associations between a high leukocyte count and risk of ischemic heart disease (IHD), we examined the relation of leukocyte counts to various characteristics among 3591 white and 506 black 31- to 45-year-old men. The mean leukocyte count was approximately 1000 cells/microL higher among whites than among blacks, and approximately 1900 cells/microL higher among current smokers than among nonsmokers. The leukocyte count was also higher among men who had recently stopped smoking and among men who reported their general health as poor or fair. Independent of these relations, the leukocyte count was associated positively with the platelet count (r = 0.29), triglyceride level (r = 0.21), heart rate (r = 0.15), and use of corticosteroids and beta-blockers; and inversely with alcohol consumption and prothrombin time (r = -0.10). The examined characteristics could together account for 37% of the variability in leukocyte counts. These relatively strong associations indicate that it may be difficult to disentangle the relation of the leukocyte count to IHD from that of other risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8682000
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8682014
To evaluate the effect of long-term treatment with metoprolol after coronary bypass grafting on death and cardiac events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8682116
To study the relationship between presence or absence of ischaemic events on Holter monitoring and occurrence of a hard or hard+soft endpoint.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8682134
To study long-term treatment effects of metoprolol or verapamil on combined cardiovascular end points and psychological variables in patients with stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8682138
To determine the effects of atenolol, nifedipine and their combination on exercise parameters and ambulatory ischaemic activity in patients with mild chronic stable angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8693706
A multicentric, prospective, 16-week open study evaluated the effectivity and tolerance of the fixed combination of the beta-blocking agent bopindolol with the diuretic chlorthalidone--Sandoretic in 81 patients with mild to moderate hypertension. The combination of these two drugs is appropriate, since both drugs have long-term effects. Sandoretic induced a decrease of the mean sitting initial systolic blood pressure of 162.5 +/- 16.5 mmHg to 134.2 +/- 12.8 mmHg at the end of the study, a decrease of 28.3 mmHg. Diastolic blood pressure decreased after 16 weeks of treatment from the initial value of 103.9 +/- 4.9 mmHg to 85.3 +/- 6.0, a decrease of 18.6 mmHg. Changes of the standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures were of similar magnitude. Sandoretic treatment led to a normalization of the diastolic blood pressure (90 mmHg and lower) in 80.3% of patients. In 49.4% of patients treatment with Sandoretic led even to a diastolic blood pressure of 85 mmHg and lower and 29.6% patients had at the end of treatment diastolic blood pressure 80 mmHg and lower. Tolerance of the drug was excellent in 75.3% patients. Sandoretic induced a mild, however, significant decrease of potassium plasma levels. The increase of the uric acid plasma level was also significant. Monitoring of potassium plasma levels is therefore necessary during the treatment with Sandoretic. In patients showing a decrease of the potassium plasma level, potassium sparing diuretic-amiloride should be added or the dosage of the drug should be halved.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8694086
To investigate the efficacy and dose-response relationship of three concentrations (0.2%, 0.7%, and 2.0%) of dorzolamide hydrochloride in lowering elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients during a six-week period and to evaluate the efficacy of 0.7% and 2.0% dorzolamide administered for an additional year.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8694665
To define contemporary patterns of risk and management among patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8694728
To compare long-term intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy of 0.25% and 0.5% apraclonidine hydrochloride with 0.5% timolol maleate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8695026
To evaluate changes in frequency of orthostatic blood pressure (BP) reduction (orthostatic hypotension; OH) in elderly hypertensive patients (HT) before and after treatment for hypertension, we measured BP after supine for 10 min and standing position for 2 min, before and after treatment for 2 years by five kinds of antihypertensive drugs in 50 elderly normotensive subjects (NT) and each of 50 HT in double-blind study. Orthostatic hypotension was defined as 10% or more decline of supine mean BP, and the frequency of OH was in 27% of HT following BP reduction by any kinds of antihypertensive drugs. In conclusion, the reducing or normalized BP by treatment for hypertension in elderly HT decreases the prevalence of orthostatic hypotension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8701900
The effect of beta-blockade on heart-rate variability was assessed at different heart rates in 52 patients with heart failure included in the randomized, placebo-controlled, Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study (CIBIS). Scatterplots of R-R intervals display beat-to-beat variability by plotting each R-R interval against the preceding interval. Scatterplot dispersion at different R-R intervals provides a measure of beat-to-beat heart-rate variability at different heart rates. A 24-hour Holter tape was performed at baseline and after 2 months of treatment with bisoprolol or matched placebo. Geometric measurements of scatterplots were used to determine beat-to-beat dispersion for different R-R intervals. Bisoprolol and placebo groups were well matched at base-line. After 2 months of treatment, bisoprolol significantly increased beat-to-beat variability at the longest R-R intervals (p < 0.05); however, there was no change in scatterplot dispersion at the shortest R-R intervals. This suggests that beta-blockade increases parasympathetic or decreases sympathetic tone or both in heart failure patients only at the slowest heart rates.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8703663
1. The effects of 4 week treatment with rilmenidine or atenolol on tests of mental stress, dynamic exercise, autonomic function and psychometric tests were evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. 2. After a 4 week placebo run-in, 12 patients with essential hypertension (blood pressure [BP] 160/95 +/- 15/7 mmHg) received rilmenidine 1-2 mg day-1, and atenolol 50-100 mg day-1, each for 4 weeks, with a 4 week placebo wash-out between drug treatments. 3. Both agents produced a comparable reduction in supine and erect BP. During the mental arithmetic test, BP and heart rate (HR) responses were similar for rilmenidine and atenolol. 4. During bicycle exercise, the increase in HR was significantly greater after rilmenidine (+50 vs 41 beats min-1, P = 0.04). During recovery, the areas under the curve for diastolic BP (46,450 vs 51,400 mmHg s, P = 0.02) and HR (49,445 vs 63,597 beats min-1 s, P = 0.001) were significantly less with atenolol than rilmenidine. 5. Neither rilmenidine nor atenolol affected mental performance as judged by arithmetic and psychomotor tests. Physiological responses to autonomic function tests (deep breathing, facial immersion, isometric handgrip and cold pressor) were preserved with both drugs. The standing to lying ratio was higher on atenolol (P = 0.01) and Valsalva ratio was higher on rilmenidine (P = 0.03). 6. In conclusion, rilmenidine and atenolol exerted comparable antihypertensive effects both at rest and during mental and dynamic stress. Atenolol attenuated HR responses to dynamic exercise and the Valsalva manoeuvre; rilmenidine did not interfere with the physiological responses of BP and HR during autonomic function tests.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8704533
To evaluate the effect of metoprolol, a beta adrenergic blocking drug, on the occurrence of myocardial ischaemia during endoscopic cholangiopancreatography.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8706070
Hypertension can no longer be evaluated only with regard to the increase of blood pressure; its clinical picture must comprise also metabolic changes with originate from insulin resistance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8706768
To determine whether general practitioners (GP) who are readers of independent drug bulletins can be used as an international epidemiological observatory of the criteria adopted by "well informed" doctors in various countries in the management of mild hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8707022
Atrial fibrillation is a relatively frequent atrial arrhythmias activated with increased morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8707025
Medical therapy of stable angina contemplates beta-blockers as a first line. The combination of dihydropyridines with beta-blocking drugs enhances the effectiveness of both single therapies. Nifedipine, in the usual formulation (AR), is burdened by an unsatisfactory tolerability, and this is the main reason to study new dihydropyridines.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8707127
This trial was carried out to assess the value of propranolol in the prevention of recurrent variceal bleeding when combined with longterm endoscopic sclerotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8724551
Sudden cardiac death and other acute cardiovascular events have been demonstrated to occur in certain temporal patterns. The study of these patterns may yield important clues to the pathophysiology of the disease process. Most studies of the timing of onset of sudden cardiac death have revealed a prominent midmorning peak, thought to be related to a surge in catecholamines associated with arising and assuming the upright posture, that is blunted or eliminated by beta blockers. In addition, some studies have also shown a secondary peak in late afternoon or early evening of uncertain cause. The development of third-generation implantable cardioverter defibrillators with memory capabilities offers a unique opportunity to accurately define event chronology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8725417
In this study, the hemodynamics and sufentanil requirement were compared at two midazolam target plasma concentrations in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8726094
The effect of age on aortic blood velocity has been studied in 100 patients with angiographically-documented coronary artery disease, 500 of whom were receiving beta-adrenergic blocking agents. Using continuous-wave Doppler ultrasound, the aortic blood velocity signals, both at rest and at maximal-tolerated supine exercise, were obtained. From the Doppler signals the peak velocity (Vp), stroke distance (Sd; the velocity-time integral) and minute distance (Md = Sd x heart rate) were calculated. The measurements were repeated 6 weeks after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), performed in 30 patients. No relationship with age (p < 0.01) was found for any of the indices, either at rest or during exercise, except for the resting Md in patients not on beta-blockers, (p < 0.02). No difference in the slope of the relationship with age was found between patients on or not on beta-blockers, except for the resting Md (p < 0.02). Following CABG, a significant age relationship with Vp, Sd and Md was restored, during both resting and exercise, suggesting improvement of systolic left ventricular function following myocardial revascularization. In conclusion, the normal age relationships of the derivatives of aortic blood velocity Doppler ultrasound signals were not seen in patients with coronary artery disease, irrespective of whether they were on or off beta-blockers. The relationship changed following myocardial revascularization, suggesting their dependence on systolic left ventricular function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8728305
To investigate whether the M235T polymorphism of the angiotensinogen (AGT) gene and the insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism of the angiotensin-1 converting enzyme (ACE) gene predict blood pressure response to different antihypertensive agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8728306
To compare the efficacy and safety of a regimen of losartan potassium (losartan) and a regimen of enalapril maleate (enalapril) in a randomized trial of patients with severe hypertension in which the initial treatments were blinded.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8729308
To compare the preventive effects of esmolol and lidocaine on the increase in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and intracranial pressure (ICP) during endotracheal intubation in neurosurgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8730344
The effects of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors on blood pressure and the progression of renal dysfunction were compared in hypertensive patients with polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Twenty-six patients with PKD and hypertension who had been treated with other antihypertensive agents, such as diuretics, beta-blockers, or alpha-methyldopa, were followed up for two years, during which their blood pressure and renal function were monitored. Patients were divided into two groups classified according to the type of antihypertensive agents given. Group 1 (n = 14) received CCBs, while group 2 (n = 12) received ACE inhibitors. No significant differences were found in their blood pressure control and serum creatinine levels throughout the study. The creatinine clearances were decreased in both groups. However, the decreases in creatinine clearance were smaller (p < 0.05) in the group treated with CCBs. In addition, two patients in group 2 showed rapid increases in serum creatinine. Our data suggest that CCBs reduced blood pressure effectively and preserved renal function in PKD patients at least as well as ACE inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8732729
The costs of treating hypertension are out of control. The Joint National Committee on the Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure and others recommend the use of diuretics and beta-blockers as first-line agents. Newer drugs such as calcium channel blockers, alpha-blockers, and angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors have improved metabolic profiles, but have not been proved in long-term, randomized, controlled trials to reduce morbidity and mortality. Our General Medicine Clinic has gradually shifted toward prescribing the newer agents. We reviewed our drug use, evaluated the literature, and made recommendations in the form of guidelines. Clinicians' concerns included quality-of-life issues, sexual dysfunction, metabolic changes--lipids, potassium, insulin resistance--and others. These concerns were addressed, and a consensus was reached. Our goal is to streamline therapy, reduce costs, and provide proven effective medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8733032
In animal models of salt-dependent hypertension, hyperfiltration is associated with a faster decline in renal function and there is evidence that in hypertensive man, increased creatinine clearance is a marker of early hypertensive nephropathy. We have studied the influence of salt intake on the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) (Creatinine Clearance) in 14 patients with mild hypertension. Each patient was studied in random order and according to a crossover design, at habitual salt intake, at high salt intake (ie habitual +50/100 mmol/day) and at low salt intake (habitual -50/100 mmol/day). Protein, calcium and potassium intake was fixed across the three study periods. The control group was formed by seven healthy subjects. High salt intake, caused a significant (P < 0.01) increase in 24 h mean arterial pressure (MAP) and the expected suppression in plasma renin activity (PRA) and in plasma aldosterone. Seven patients were classified as salt-sensitive. The GFR was significantly higher (P < 0.01) at high salt intake (125 +/- 10 ml/min) than at habitual (113 +/- 7 ml/min) and at low salt intake (97 +/- 6 ml/min). On aggregate urinary salt excretion was significantly related with the GFR (P < 0.01 by correlation analysis for repeated observations) and the slope of this relationship predicted that a 100 mmol/day increase in salt intake is associated with the 14.6 ml/min rise in the GFR. The relationship between GFR and 24 h urinary salt in salt sensitive patients did not differ from that in salt resistant patients. The GFR response to salt loading was largely independent of the renin-aldosterone system. No change in arterial pressure nor in GFR was observed in healthy subjects. At fixed protein intake, changes in salt intake in the physiological range are associated with important GFR variations in mild hypertensives. As long as hyperfiltration in mild hypertension is a predictor of renal function deterioration, high salt intake, independent of the effect of arterial pressure, could be a factor that contributes to nephronic obsolescence in patients with essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8733036
This study examines the effects of antihypertensive therapy on platelet cytosolic calcium [Ca2+]i responses to low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) and vasopressin (AVP) in 15 patients (50-80 years) participating in the Hypertension Optimal Treatment International Study. All patients (diastolic blood pressure (DBP) > or = 100 mm Hg and < or = 115 mm Hg) were treated with the calcium antagonist felodipine (10 mg p.o.) with or without addition of enalapril (up to 20 mg daily as needed) to lower diastolic pressures to < 85 mm Hg. This antihypertensive therapy lowered DBP (104 +/- 0.8 to 78 +/- 1.6 mm Hg, P < 0.0001), but had no effect on basal [Ca2+]i or AVP-stimulated [Ca2+]i responses. Basal platelet [Ca2+]i following antihypertensive therapy (49 +/- 3.4 ng/ml) were not different from those prior to therapy (52 +/- 4.7 ng/ml). Additionally, [Ca2+]i responses to AVP following therapy (554 +/- 74 units) were not different from those prior to treatment (595 +/- 49 units). Following antihypertensive therapy, [Ca2+]i responses to 200 micrograms/ml of LDL were decreased fourfold (P < 0.05). These results suggest that antihypertensive therapy with a calcium channel blocker may potentially impact the atherogenic process by reducing the platelet [Ca2+]i rise, and potentially the aggregatory response, to LDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8733040
The increased viscosity of blood of hypertensive patients can be assumed to be a risk factor for the development of cardiovascular diseases. The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether anti-hypertensive treatment has any impact on blood rheology. Twenty patients with previously untreated hypertension who consecutively attended our outpatient hypertension clinic were included in this prospective, open, cross-over study. The patients were randomly selected to treatment with amlodipine or metoprolol. The anti-hypertensive therapy was switched after 4 months. Haemorheological and haemodynamic variables were measured with rotational viscometry and impedance cardiography, respectively. Fifteen and 16 patients could be evaluated after amlodipine or metoprolol treatment respectively. The mean blood pressure (BP) decreased from 159 +/- 22/105 +/- 7 to 139 +/- 21/91 +/- 6 mm Hg on amlodipine and from 162 +/- 22/104 +/- 5 to 145 +/- 24/90 +/- 8 mm Hg on metoprolol therapy. After amlodipine treatment, the total peripheral resistance index decreased whereas metoprolol treatment was accompanied by a decrease in the cardiac index. Decreases in whole blood viscosity, haematocrit and serum erythropoietin were found after amlodipine as well as metoprolol treatment. After amlodipine the plasma viscosity decreased and the erythrocyte deformability increased in the majority of patients. Plasma fibrinogen decreased after metoprolol treatment. Despite the differences in haemodynamic mechanisms underlying the decrease in BP, amlodipine and metoprolol exert beneficial effects on blood viscosity. Haemodilution and a decrease in serum erythropoietin may be factors underlying this decrease in blood viscosity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8733214
This study aims to describe factors associated with cognitive decline among 2584 subjects, aged 65-74, who were followed up for 54 months in the Medical Research Council Elderly Hypertension Trial (1982-1989). The subjects completed a cognitive test, the Paired Associate Learning Test (PALT), five times over this period. Decline on the PALT was associated with advanced age, male sex, rural residence, depression and low intelligence. These effects were modified by gender and level of pre-morbid intelligence. Advanced age, rural residence and number of cigarettes smoked daily were only associated with PALT decline among women of below median intelligence. The association between depression and PALT decline was only apparent in women of below median intelligence and men of above median intelligence. While these findings are consistent with other research into cognitive decline, they differ in some ways from reported risk factors for dementia, suggesting aetiological separateness. That women were more vulnerable than men to the effects of age and smoking raises the question of the impact on cognition of accelerated atherosclerosis after the menopause.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8736459
The objective of this study was to assess the medium-term effects of betaxolol, a long-acting, lipid-soluble, cardioselective, beta-adrenergic antagonist, alone and in combination with nitrendipine on blood pressure (BP) and metabolism of lipid, lipoprotein and apolipoprotein in patients with mild to moderate hypertension. Forty-seven patients (21 men, 26 women, average age 54 years) participated in an open controlled clinical trial. After a 4-week washout period, all of the patients received betaxolol monotherapy at a dose of 5-10 mg daily for 6 months (Phase I). From month 7 through month 12 (Phase II), half of the total patients (Group B, n = 23) with diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of 95 mm Hg or more at the end of Phase I were also given nitrendipine (10-20 mg, once daily), while the remaining patients (Group A, n = 24) continued to receive only betaxolol. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), DBP, and heart rate (HR) were monitored once monthly. Serum lipid profiles were measured at study entry and after 6 and 12 months of therapy. Betaxolol significantly reduced SBP, DBP, and HR in both groups during Phase I, and the reductions in SBP and DBP were markedly less in Group B than in Group A. During Phase II, the additional reduction of SBP and DBP to levels similar to those in Group A was achieved by betaxolol in combination with nitrendipine, and HR was slightly but significantly increased. Betaxolol monotherapy reduced serum levels of high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and increased levels of triglyceride, apolipoprotein (apo) C-II and apo C-III. Combination therapy with betaxolol and nitrendipine increased serum apo A-I but did not affect other lipid profiles. Our results indicate that betaxolol is an effective antihypertensive drug which has a preferable effect on HR and HDL profiles when combined with nitrendipine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8737100
Recently, a new exercise test criterion diagnosing coronary artery disease was proposed, based on a composite of changes in Q-, R- and S-waves: the QRS score. We compared this new criterion with conventional ST-segment depression and other compositions of Q-, R- and S-wave changes in patients and normals and related the QRS score to reversible thallium-201 scintigraphic defects and ST-segment depression as markers for ischaemia. The influence of beta-blockade on the QRS score was also studied.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8737105
Two hundred and ten patients with clinical evidence of heart failure, developing after an acute myocardial infarction, were randomized to treatment with the beta 1-receptor antagonist metoprolol 50-100 mg b.i.d. (n = 106) or the beta 1-receptor partial agonist xamoterol 100-200 mg b.i.d. (n = 104). Left ventricular systolic and diastolic function were assessed with echocardiography and transmitral Doppler cardiography before and after 3 and 12 months of double-blind treatment. E-point septal separation and percent left ventricular fractional shortening were used as indices of systolic function. The ratio between peak early and late mitral diastolic flow (E/A ratio) and isovolumic relaxation time were used as indices of diastolic function. In the xamoterol group, there was a deterioration in E-point septal separation (P < 0.05). A difference between the treatment groups was present both at 3 months (E-point septal separation 11.4 vs 13.0 mm, P < 0.01, fractional shortening 27.1 vs 25.2%, P < 0.05) and 12 months (E-point septal separation 11.1 vs 13.2 mm. P < 0.005, fractional shortening 26.9 vs 25.0%, P < 0.05). E/A ratio increased in the metoprolol group (P < 0.05) but not in the xamoterol group. At 3 months there was a significant difference (0.85 vs 0.67, P < 0.005) between the groups but not at 12 months. In comparison with the beta 1-receptor antagonist metoprolol, the beta 1-receptor partial agonist xamoterol impaired left ventricular systolic function in patients with clinical evidence of heart failure after an acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8737958
The comparison of the anti-ischemic activity of trimetazidine and propranolol was evaluated by multiple end points (clinical, exercise test, and ambulatory electrocardiogram [ECG] monitoring criteria) in 149 male patients with effort angina who received either trimetazidine 20 mg tid or propranolol 40 mg tid during a period of 3 months. The distribution of the standardized differences between the two treatments for each variable was obtained by a permutation method. The medians (estimation of the actual difference between the two treatments) and the 5, 25, 75 and 95% quantiles were represented on the same diagram for all end points. The pattern of the standardized distribution of the differences showed a similar activity of both drugs on symptoms and nitrates consumption, on exercise tolerance and increase in ischemic threshold at exercise, and on ischemia recorded at ambulatory ECG monitoring. Conversely, only propranolol decreased heart rate and rate pressure product at rest as well as at exercise, underlining the difference in the mode of action of the two drugs. This descriptive technique is an attractive method to evaluate the differences between drugs considering multiple criteria favouring the estimation of these differences together with their variability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8738729
Effective protection from the risk of variceal bleeding is achieved when the hepatic venous pressure gradient is reduced to 12 mmHg or at least by 20% of baseline values. Such a marked decrease is rarely achieved with propranolol, and new agents or combinations of them are now being explored. The present randomized study investigated whether chronic treatment with the combination of propranolol plus molsidomine, a preferential venous dialator that reduces hepatic venous pressure gradient and does not cause pharmacological tolerance, achieves greater reduction in hepatic venous pressure gradient than propranolol alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750168
It has been suggested that the vulnerability of gastric mucosa is increased in patients with cirrhosis as a result of a PGE2 deficiency. Therefore, we evaluated whether PGE2 mucosal generation, and gastric potential difference - a reflection of the gastric mucosal barrier - were correlated to endoscopic features and whether these alterations could be alleviated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750405
The short- and long-term effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril and the cardioselective beta-blocker bisoprolol on serum lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins, and lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]) levels were investigated in patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. Fifty-two patients completed the 12-month, randomized, multicenter trial. After administration of lisinopril (10 to 20 mg/d; n = 24) and bisoprolol (2.5 to 10 mg/d; n = 28), systolic and diastolic blood pressures decreased significantly (P < 0.01) from baseline in both groups at 3, 6, and 12 months. The reduction in diastolic blood pressure was significantly (P < 0.05) greater in the lisinopril group than in the bisoprolol group only at 6 months. Heart rates dropped significantly in the bisoprolol group but not in the lisinopril group. No significant changes in lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins, or Lp(a) levels were observed with either drug at 3, 6, or 12 months, and no significant differences were noted between the two drugs for these parameters. We conclude that lisinopril and bisoprolol are effective as antihypertensive drugs without adverse metabolic effects after short- and long-term treatment in patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8752790
The Total Ischemic Burden Bisoprolol Study (TIBBS) follow-up examined cardiac event rates in relation to transient ischemia and its treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8762212
To investigate the metabolic, antihypertensive and albuminuria-modifying effects of a heart rate-modulating calcium antagonist-angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor combination compared with those of a beta-blocker-low-dose diuretic combination in non-insulin-dependent diabetic hypertensives.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8763003
The authors analysed survival of 160 patients (121 men and 31 women; average age 57.2 +/- 12.5 years; follow-up 29 +/- 20 months) treated for malignant ventricular arrhythmias (sustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, syncope with inducible ventricular tachycardia). The therapeutic evaluation was frequently invasive (145 patients underwent at least programmed ventricular stimulation, 108 patients underwent full endocavitary electrophysiological studies) and non-pharmacological therapy was widely used (defibrillator n = 44; antiarrhythmic surgery n = 28; ablative procedures n = 19; transplantation n = 7). The following underlying pathologies were observed: ischaemic heart disease n = 120; non-ischaemic left heart disease n = 19; right heart cardiac disease n = 4; and apparently normal hearts n = 17). The average ejection fraction was 40.5 +/- 15.5% and 29 patients were in the NYHA functional classes III or IV. Fifty-five patients had life-threatening arrhythmias whilst receiving amiodarone. At 2 years, the actuarial sudden death rate was 5.9 +/- 2.1% and the actuarial total cardiac mortality rate was 13.1 +/- 2.9%. Univariate analysis showed age, the presence of underlying cardiac disease, the presence of dilated cardiomyopathy, the absence of an invasive approach, the need for basal pacing in electrical cardioversion, the absence of betablocker therapy, a decreased left ventricular ejection fraction and a high NYHA functional class, to be predictive of sudden death. In multivariate analysis, age, the NYHA class for total cardiac mortality and the NYHA class for sudden death, were the only independent predictive factors. The authors conclude that in the era of invasive methods of evaluation and widespread use of non-pharmacological therapeutic methods, the symptomatology of cardiac failure assessed by the NYHA classification remains the most powerful independent prognostic factor after an episode of malignant ventricular arrhythmia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8767350
Antihypertensive Efficacy and Tolerability of Isradipine in Patients with Severe Hypertension/Results of an open multicenter study. In this open multicentre study 55 patients (mean age 51.2 years) with severe hypertension (diastolic blood pressure > 115 mmHg) were treated for seven weeks with the calcium antagonist of the dihydropyridine type isradipine (CAS 75695-93-1, Lomir). If necessary, metoprolol or enalapril were added to the regimen. Before inclusion into the active treatment phase, responsiveness of the patients to a single administration of isradipine (5 mg) was compared with placebo. Preexisting antihypertensive therapy (18 patients) was to be maintained during the study period. Blood pressure was recorded with an automatic device. During the 7-week period blood pressure decreased from 173.7/124.8 mmHg to 143.2/97.8 mmHg. Both the group with isradipine monotherapy (n = 32) and the combination group (n = 11) showed a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Diastolic blood pressure response, defined as a decline of more than 15 mmHg, was noted in 87.5% (monotherapy) and 72.7% (combination group) of patients. On the whole, blood pressure was normalized in 27.9% of the participants. Nineteen patients experienced 43 adverse events, most of which were rated mild to moderate. Therapy was withdrawn in only one patient (due to ankle edema). The most frequent adverse event was headache (20.9%).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8772622
To study the relationship between insulin sensitivity and sodium-lithium countertransport (Na(+)-Li+ CT) in mild, essential hypertension, and to investigate the effect of metformin and metoprolol, respectively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8772669
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8772687
beta-Blockers have been used in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy to improve cardiac performance and theoretically would be beneficial to diastolic function. However, there are few reports on changes in diastolic function during chronic pharmacological treatment of congestive heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8775936
Mortality from acute myocardial infarction has declined in recent years, largely due to the widespread application of new pharmacologic and mechanical interventions that have been tested in large, prospective, randomized clinical trials. For practicing generalists, we review the key data from such trials that have shaped the current management of patients with acute myocardial infarction. We discuss the roles of thrombolytic therapy, coronary angioplasty, nitrates, beta- and calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors, magnesium, and antiarrhythmic and antithrombotic agents. In addition, we highlight critical unanswered questions in the management of this disorder.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8777472
An important aspect of antihypertensive drug treatment is quality of life (QL) which should at least not be negatively affected. In this study, the QL during treatment with carvedilol (C), a beta-blocker with vasodilating properties due to alpha-1-receptor blockade, was compared to that of enalapril (E) in patients who had responded to the treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8792950
To describe a new class of antihypertensive agents, the angiotensin II receptor antagonists, with emphasis on the prototype losartan. Pharmacokinetic data and clinical trials are reviewed, as well as adverse reactions, drug interactions, and dosing guidelines.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8793161
To assess left ventricular systolic and diastolic function, M-mode (n = 675) and transmitral Doppler echocardiography (n = 358) were performed in patients with stable angina pectoris and compared with 50 matched healthy controls. Left ventricular fractional shortening (FS) was significantly lower in male than in female patients (32 +/- 7 vs. 35 +/- 7%, p < 0.001). A history of heart failure was as frequent in men (6%) as in women (6%), but left ventricular systolic dysfunction was more frequent in men than in women (25 vs. 12%, p < 0.005). The ratio of early/late diastolic peak flow velocity (E/A ratio) was significantly lower, indicating diastolic dysfunction, in female patients with clinical heart failure than in those without (0.79 +/- 0.25 vs. 1.02 +/- 0.3, p < 0.05). No such difference was found in male patients. Inverse relationships were found between age and E/A ratio in both controls (r = -0.45, p < 0.001) and angina patients (r = -0.44, p < 0.001). Thus, despite similar frequency of clinical heart failure, left ventricular systolic dysfunction was more common in men than in women with stable angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8794822
Losartan, the first specific and orally available angiotensin II receptor antagonist, is a potent antihypertensive drug with a low incidence of side effects in humans. However, the effects of losartan on insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism have not been investigated in detail. Therefore, we carried out a randomized, double-blind study to compare the effects of losartan (50 mg QD) and metoprolol (95 mg QD) on insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion, glucose tolerance, and lipids and lipoproteins in 20 hyperinsulinemic subjects with essential hypertension. The fall in blood pressure was greater with losartan than with metoprolol. Insulin sensitivity evaluated by the euglycemic clamp technique did not change in either group after 12 weeks of treatment. Similarly, glucose oxidation (losartan: 17.0 +/- 0.9 versus 16.9 +/- 1.0 mumol/kg per minute [before versus after, P = NS]; metoprolol: 17.9 +/- 1.3 versus 16.8 +/- 1.6 [P = NS]) and nonoxidation (losartan: 22.3 +/- 4.0 versus 23.5 +/- 3.4 mumol/kg per minute [P = NS]; metoprolol: 23.3 +/- 3.2 versus 25.6 +/- 4.7 [P = NS]) remained unchanged during the last 30 minutes of the 3-hour euglycemic clamp. Losartan and metoprolol did not have any significant adverse effects on insulin secretion, glucose tolerance, or lipids and lipoproteins. In conclusion, losartan is metabolically neutral, without any significant adverse effect on glucose and lipid metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8797135
We wished to determine in asymptomatic hypertensive patients with > or = 70% stenosis of an internal carotid artery the change in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) produced by ramipril and enalapril and to evaluate the influence of age on drug-induced changes in rCBF. In a prospective, randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled investigation, using the 133Xenon inhalation technique, we assessed baseline rCBF in 15 patients (9 men and 6 women aged 60-79 years) after a 24-h antihypertensive drug-free period. All patients then received a single 5-mg oral dose of ramipril, enalapril, or placebo. rCBF was reassessed 2 h postdose. There was no significant change in the median rCBF in any of the three treatment groups. Neither did we observe any lateralization of BF to any specific cerebral region in any of the three groups. There were no observed or patient-reported adverse events (AE). Single 5-mg oral doses of either ramipril or enalapril did not decrease CBF significantly in asymptomatic hypertensive patients with > or = 70% stenosis of an internal carotid artery and are probably safe starting doses in such patients. In addition, this effect was not modified by age.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8798100
The aim of this study was to compare the effects on left ventricular function and exercise tolerance of a selective beta-antagonist (atenolol) with those of another selective beta 1-antagonist with vasodilator properties (nebivolol) in patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction but no overt congestive heart failure. Beta blockers are widely used in ischemic heart disease, but their effects on left ventricular mechanics and exercise tolerance are poorly defined in the subgroup of patients with significant systolic dysfunction but without clinical evidence of ischemia or congestive heart failure. Angiographic and symptom-limited exercise data were obtained at baseline and after an 8-10-week double-blind treatment with placebo (n = 10), 50 mg atenolol daily (n = 10), or 2.5 mg (n = 10) or 5 mg (n = 10) nebivolol daily. When compared to placebo, both atenolol and nebivolol reduced resting heart rate and improved left ventricular ejection fraction (from 33.9 to 39.2% with atenolol and from 36.5 to 40.8% with nebivolol, both P < .05) while lowering mean systolic wall stress. Only nebivolol, however, produced a parallel downward shift of the pressure-volume relationship during early diastolic filling and improved the early peak filling rate when compared to placebo (+ 10%, P < .05). When compared to baseline, maximal exercise duration increased by 7 and 13 seconds with placebo and atenolol, respectively (both NS vs baseline), and increased by 44 seconds with nebivolol (P = .0077 vs baseline). Both atenolol and nebivolol decreased maximal exercise heart rate; the reduction was more pronounced with atenolol. Prolonged beta 1-adrenoceptor blockade leads to a significant increase in left ventricular ejection fraction in patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction. The dissociation between the changes in resting left ventricular function and the changes in exercise duration suggests that in this clinical setting, the changes in systolic function may have less impact on functional capacity than an improvement in diastolic distensibility during the rapid filling phase.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8800982
In unstable angina, clinical characteristics, resting electrocardiography, and early continuous ST segment monitoring have been individually reported to identify subgroups at increased risk of adverse outcome. It is not known, however, whether continuous ST monitoring provides additional prognostic information in such a setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8808164
Calcium antagonists, or calcium channel entry blockers, have been advocated as cardioprotective agents in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) on the basis of animal experiments, which show that they will reduce the harmful effects of the calcium overload which follows ischaemia, particularly during reperfusion, and also that they will reduce coronary artery spasm. Unfortunately, these promising actions have not translated into clear mortality data. An overview of the large amount of data from properly randomised controlled clinical trials shows clear differences between the dihydropyridine class of calcium antagonists such as nifedipine, and the non-dihydropyridines verapamil and diltiazem. Most of the data with the former group derive from trials with short-acting formulations of nifedipine (TRENT, HINT, SPRINT-I and -II). Overall, none of these trials showed significant benefit in either AMI or post-MI prophylaxis. There was a trend for harm, with HINT stopped early because of excess reinfarction with nifedipine, compared with metoprolol. In contrast, and when taken together, the DAVIT-I and DAVIT-II studies with verapamil show significant reductions in sudden death, reinfarction and total mortality. The greatest benefit occurred in those patients with relatively good left ventricular function. Similar but less significant trends were seen in studies with diltiazem. It is clear that calcium antagonists, unlike beta-blockers, cannot be treated as a similar class. It seems likely that the adverse effects of nifedipine are related to reflex sympathetic cardiac stimulation as a result of the predominantly vasodilator action of these dihydropyridine compounds. Data on newer dihydropyridines with fewer reflex effects are awaited. In the meantime it seems sensible to use proven agents such as beta-blockers or verapamil. These data on AMI and the months following have recently been paralleled by case control studies in hypertension, which similarly have suggested harm from the use of predominantly short acting formulations of nifedipine compared with beta-blockers and which led to a warning statement by the US National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute on 1 September 1995.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8817135
Supraventricular tachyarrhythmias (SVT) complicate postoperative management after coronary bypass surgery in about 30% of all patients. Though a prophylactic treatment both with beta-adrenergic blocking agents and the calcium antagonist diltiazem has been used for the prevention of post-operative SVT, no study yet has performed a prospective comparison of the efficacy of these therapies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8821421
Patients with coronary artery disease and severe angina pectoris refractory to conventional medical treatment (beta blockers, nitrates, calcium antagonists) and without the option for invasive revascularization procedures represent an increasing clinical problem. For these patients, chronic-intermittent urokinase therapy has been developed. Twenty patients received 500,000 IU urokinase as intravenous bolus injection 3 times a week over a period of 12 weeks. The average reduction in anginal symptoms in 19 patients was 74%, from 23.5 +/- 10.8 to 5.2 +/- 4.8 events/week (p < 0.001); 1 patient was excluded from further treatment because of an increase of > 66% in anginal events. Fibrinogen decreased by 34% from 370 +/- 57 to 244 +/- 44 mg/dl (p < 0.001), the rheological parameters plasma viscosity by 6.1% from 1.39 +/- 0.04 to 1.31 +/- 0.03 mPas (< 0.001), and red blood cell aggregation by 18% from 13.9 +/- 2.4 to 11.2 +/- 2.2 (p < 0.001). Exercise tolerance increased by 51%. Average ST-segment depression decreased from 0.16 +/- 0.10 to 0.12 +/- 0.09 (p < 0.01). After 12 weeks of follow-up, angina pectoris and fibrinogen levels were still significantly reduced compared with baseline values. Chronic-intermittent urokinase therapy represents an effective anti-ischemic and antianginal approach in patients with refractory angina pectoris and end-stage coronary artery disease. Improvement of rheological blood properties and thrombolytic effects are likely therapeutic mechanisms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8826572
While studies have noted possible benefits of valproate for migraine prophylaxis, most have small study samples (range 22-34 patients). The more recent, larger clinical trial confirms the effectiveness of valproate in the prevention of migraines. The available evidence suggests that valproic acid should provide another alternative to conventional migraine prophylaxis. However, it would still be beneficial to see other large studies conducted to determine valproate's place among the migraine prophylactic therapies currently available. The Food and Drug Administration recently approved divalproex sodium for the prevention of migraine headaches. The usual starting dosage is 250 mg bid, titrating to 1000 mg/d if necessary.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8831060
Secretion rates and composition of unstimulated and chewing-stimulated whole saliva and 3% citric acid stimulated parotid and submandibular-sublingual secretions were studied in 12 hypertensive patients during withdrawal of and re-exposure to antihypertensive pharmacotherapy. All the patients' blood pressures were well controlled by monotherapy with metoprolol, a beta 1-selective adrenoceptor antagonist. Blood pressure measurements and saliva sampling were performed at about 9:30 a.m., 2 h after intake of breakfast, on days 0 (medicated baseline), 7, 14, 28 (nonmedicated experimental values and nonmedicated baseline) and 35 (medicated experimental values). A significant increase in unstimulated whole saliva secretion rate was observed when metoprolol was withdrawn and a corresponding decrease when the drug was reintroduced. A positive correlation was found between diastolic blood pressure levels and chewing-stimulated whole saliva secretion rates. In unstimulated whole saliva and 3% citric acid stimulated submandibular-sublingual secretion, the output of total protein, amylase, potassium, calcium and phosphate was significantly increased during the withdrawal period and decreased when metoprolol was reintroduced. For chewing-stimulated whole saliva, the corresponding changes were restricted to output of total protein and amylase, while for citric acid stimulated parotid secretion, no changes in salivary composition were observed. Finally, in all secretions one or both of the ratios hexosamine/total protein and sialic acid/total protein were affected, indicating a possible effect of beta-adrenoceptor antagonists on salivary protein synthesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8831181
This was a double-blind, within-patient, crossover study to evaluate the effects of a new formulation of metoprolol on blood pressure (BP) and myocardial ischemia. Twenty outpatients with mild to moderate essential arterial hypertension, chronic stable angina pectoris and positive exercise test, after a 2-week baseline placebo period, were randomized to receive long-acting metoprolol (OROS) 14/190 mg o.d., nifedipine SR 20 mg b.i.d. or their combination in a sequence of a 3 x 3 Latin square design. Two patients withdrew from the study (1 for adverse event during metoprolol and 1 for rise of BP during nifedipine). Nifedipine, metoprolol and their combination significantly reduced the weekly number of angina attacks and nitroglycerin consumption with respect to baseline. The total number of ischemic events (at 24-hour ECG monitoring) significantly decreased after each treatment with respect to baseline. Twenty-four hours mean systolic and diastolic BP were reduced by both nifedipine alone and metoprolol alone; the combination of the two drugs led to a further decrease in both systolic and diastolic BP. The duration of silent ischemic episodes was significantly reduced by nifedipine and combination but not by metoprolol. On the other hand 24 hours symptomatic attacks/patient were significantly reduced by beta-blocker and combination, but not by nifedipine. Metoprolol alone and administered with nifedipine caused a decrease, with respect to placebo baseline, in 24-hour mean heart rate (HR) and reduced the increase of HR and systolic BP at the onset of ST depression during symptomatic ischemic episodes. The effort time and time to ST = -1 mm at treadmill were significantly increased by treatment with nifedipine alone, with metoprolol alone and with their combination, but the combination was more effective than the individual therapies. ST depression at peak exercise was significantly reduced by each treatment. The slopes of correlations between the ST-segment variation and systolic BP, HR and rate-pressure product during exercise, significantly decreased after all treatments with respect to placebo baseline, more with the combination therapy than with nifedipine alone and metoprolol alone. In conclusion, based on our results the favourable interaction of metoprolol OROS and nifedipine given concomitantly, is likely to be due to a better control, respect to each individual therapy, of the pathogenetic mechanism of myocardia ischemia: BP and HR increases during exercise and during symptomatic ischemic episodes are controlled by the beta-blocker and coronary vasoconstriction during silent ischemia is prevented by the calcium-antagonist.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8834027
Variceal pressure was measured at endoscopy in 98 patients with a non-invasive, pressure-sensitive gauge technique.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8840055
To compare the ability of different bolus doses of esmolol to blunt the haemodynamic effects of laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation in treated hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8840367
Coronary artery bypass surgery is an accepted treatment for patients with coronary artery disease. Perioperative morbidity includes development of supraventricular arrhythmias. To prevent this, prophylactic administration of drugs such as calcium channel blockers, digoxin, and beta-blockers have been advised.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8842136
To review the factors contributing to treatment resistance in hypertensive patients and assess the evidence from therapeutic trials in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8842782
The study aims to evaluate the effect of trimetazidine in reducing reperfusion arrhythmias in patients with acute myocardial infarction after successful thrombolysis. A total of 169 patients were included in the study, 83 of whom received trimetazidine orally at an initial dose of 60 mg followed by 20 mg tid for 5 days. These patients formed the study group (group T) while the remaining 86, the control group (group C). Successful thrombolysis by clinical and electrocardiographic criteria was observed in 53 patients of group T and in 55 patients of group C. Reperfusion arrhythmias were observed in 16 patients in group T (30.1%) and in 31 in group C (56.3%). This difference was statistically significant. Serious ventricular arrhythmias (sustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation) were observed in 1 patient of group T (1.8%) and in 6 patients of group C (10.9%). This difference was also statistically significant. It is concluded that trimetazidine administration can reduce the rate of reperfusion arrhythmias. This conclusion should be confirmed by larger clinical trials in order to give to the clinical results a stronger statistical power.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8843892
We undertook this prospective double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of low-dose (15 mg) pravastatin in elderly hypercholesterolemic hypertensive subjects with concurrent antihypertensive treatment and to determine whether fasting hyperinsulinemia could also be improved. At three hypertension and lipid clinics of two medical centers, 96 elderly (49 women, 47 men) ambulatory subjects were randomized to active treatment or placebo for 12 months after a 3-month single-blind lead-in period. Hypertensive subjects with plasma total cholesterol levels of at least 6.47 mmol/L (250 mg/dL) and triglyceride levels less than 3.39 mmol/L (300 mg/dL) were treated with 15 mg pravastatin for 12 months after receiving 3 months of the American Heart Association step I diet. Lipid, glucose, and fasting insulin levels were measured; clinical laboratory tests included liver function and creatine kinase determinations. After 12 months of pravastatin therapy, plasma total cholesterol concentration decreased by 25.1% (from a mean of 7.29 to 5.47 mmol/L, P < .05), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol decreased by 30.2% (from 5.27 to 3.68 mmol/L, P < .05), and triglycerides decreased by 10.7% (from 1.68 to 1.50 mmol/L, P < .05). High-density lipoprotein cholesterol increased by 9.2% (from 1.20 to 1.31 mmol/L, P < .05). Fasting insulin levels decreased from 89.0 to 61.5 pmol/L (P < .05). All of these changes were greater (P < .05) than any tendency toward change in the placebo group. Adverse events and clinical laboratory abnormalities were generally mild and transient in both placebo and pravastatin groups. Study drugs were withdrawn from one subject in each group with asymptomatic creatine kinase elevations. We conclude that low-dose pravastatin was effective and safe in the treatment of hypercholesterolemic hypertensive subjects on concurrent antihypertensive therapy. It also improved fasting hyperinsulinemia despite the use of beta-blockers and diuretics in these hypertensive subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8855996
To examine the distribution and correlates of the classes of antihypertensive medications taken by persons aged 60 to 80.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8857071
Physical exercise causes transient albuminuria. The mechanisms of postexercise albuminuria are not fully clarified but stimulation of the reninangiotensin system (RAS) probably plays a major role through intrarenal haemodynamic changes causing an elevated filtration pressure. In a randomised, double-blind, crossover study we compared the effects on urinary albumin excretion (UAE) of lisinopril (L) and atenolol (A) therapy, i.e. we aimed to investigate whether inhibition of the RAS or inhibition of beta1-adrenoceptor-mediated effects of the sympathetic nervous system differed with regard to changes in UAE. Sixteen patients with uncomplicated primary hypertension were studied. Four standardised bicycle ergometer exercise tests were performed, before and after each active treatment period. UAE 30 min postexercise, determined by radioimmunoassay, was significantly lowered by both treatments: -278 mu g center dot min-1 (L) and -199 mu g center dot min-1 (A). The reduction of postexercise UAE achieved by treatment with the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (L) was significantly greater than that achieved by the beta1-selective adrenoceptor blocker treatment. Blood pressure (BP) at rest and during exercise were equally reduced by both drugs. In conclusion, this study showed that antihypertensive treatment with an ACE inhibitor was more effective in reducing exercise-induced albuminuria than a beta1-selective adrenoceptor-blocking agent with a similar degree of BP reduction in patients with uncomplicated primary hypertension. This suggests that the RAS plays a major role in postexercise albuminuria in hypertensive subjects. The clinical significance of this finding, however, remains to be clarified.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8857482
Recent evidence has shown that improvement in left ventricular (LV) systolic function in patients with New York Heart Association class II to III heart failure occurs with beta-adrenergic blocking agents. However the specific effects on LV diastolic function have been subjected to only limited examination. This study investigated the effects of the combined beta blocker/vasodilator, carvedilol, on systolic and diastolic LV performance in dilated cardiomyopathy. Thirty-six patients with New York Heart Association II to III heart failure and LV ejection fraction < or = 0.35 were entered into either arm of this placebo-controlled, double-blind 4-month trial. Twenty-one subjects were entered into the carvedilol treatment arm and 15 patients were entered into the placebo arm in a 3:2 ratio. Carvedilol therapy resulted in a significant improvement in LV ejection fraction, from 0.22 +/- 0.02 to 0.30 +/- 0.02 when compared with the placebo group (0.19 +/- 0.02 to 0.21 +/- 0.02 at baseline and after 4 months of therapy, respectively; p = 0.0001). However, no significant change in radionuclide parameters of LV diastolic function, including peak filling rate or time to peak filling rate, was observed. LV end-diastolic volume index did not change with carvedilol therapy, whereas end-diastolic volume index increased in the placebo group, although the difference between groups at 4 months was significant (p = 0.02). In conjunction with these changes, end-systolic volume index was smaller at 4 months after carvedilol treatment compared with that of the placebo group (p = 0.04). Thus, these results demonstrate that in moderate chronic heart failure, systolic LV performance improves but diastolic LV function does not improve when compared with placebo after treatment with carvedilol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8862216
The Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS), an electronic monitor which records the date and time of bottle cap openings, and pill counts were used to assess patterns of adherence for the primary antihypertensive drug in the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension Pilot Study (AASK). Blacks with hypertension and moderately reduced renal function were randomized to one of two levels of blood pressure control and to one of three antihypertensive drug regimens: primary therapy with a calcium channel blocker, an angiotension converting enzyme inhibitor, or a beta-blocker. Of the 94 participants in AASK, 91 had MEMS recordings and pill counts for 313 regularly scheduled monthly follow-up visits. The average length of follow-up was 4.6 months. An acceptable level of adherence by pill count was achieved if 80% to 100% of the prescribed pills were not returned to the clinic. Adherence by MEMS to a once-a-day drug dosing schedule was acceptable if 80% of the time intervals between MEMS openings were within 24 +/- 6 h. Acceptable adherence by pill count was observed at 68% of the follow-up visits; MEMS indicated nonadherence at 47% of those visits. Blood pressure was within goal in 50% of the participants who were adherent by both pill count and MEMS throughout their follow-up visits, and only 14% of the participants who were identified nonadherent by one or both methods. These findings suggest that electronic monitoring is a useful adjunct to pill counts in assessing adherence to antihypertensive drugs. Feedback of electronically collected information on dosing intervals to participants and staff may enhance adherence.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8869768
A comparative post-marketing surveillance study of the safety and efficacy of flunarizine and propranolol in the treatment of migraine was carried out. General practitioners in Belgium and the Netherlands each recruited patients for whom they would prescribe one of the study medications in the normal course of their treatment and recorded all medical events on follow-up forms for up to 8 months. A total of 1601 migraine patients were enrolled; 838 in the flunarizine cohort and 763 in the propranolol cohort. Propranolol was somewhat better than flunarizine in reducing the severity of migraine attacks, although this may have been due to a selection bias. Discontinuations of therapy due to events considered likely to be treatment-related were mostly due to the recognized side effects of the two drugs. As regards the occurrence of depressions, a total of 58 patients had depressive events, 34 in the flunarizine cohort and 24 in the propranolol cohort. Whereas migraine itself appears to be associated with an increased risk of depression, the number of previous migraine treatments was shown to be an additional risk factor for the development of depression in patients receiving flunarizine as was a history of depression. Overall, there was no appreciable difference in the risk/benefit ratio between flunarizine and propranolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8877595
We compared the effect of beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and calcium antagonists on the circadian blood pressure (BP) profile in essential hypertension. We reviewed all studies published between 1980 and August 1993 reporting the circadian efficacy of antihypertensive drugs and using ambulatory BP monitoring. In all, 815 patients with essential hypertension were assessed in 51 studies of eight different beta-blockers, six ACE inhibitors, and eight calcium antagonists. As main outcome measures, relative (percentage) BP reductions during the day and at night were compared between the three classes of antihypertensive drugs. Results were also separated for different dosing schemes (once and more than once daily). With all three classes of antihypertensive agents, the percentage night BP reduction was approximately 1-3% less as compared with percentage reductions during the day. Only for systolic BP (SBP) of the calcium antagonists administered once daily was this difference significant [2.2%, confidence interval (CI) 0.3-4.0%, p < 0.05], due to a higher statistical power in this group of agents. Our results show that beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, and calcium antagonists are comparably effective during the day and at night, and no evidence indicates that either of the three agents is preferable to obtain the best possible antihypertensive effect at night.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8879339
The effects on blood pressure (BP), renal function, and urinary albumin excretion (UAE) of 14 years of antihypertensive treatment were studied and compared to the changes seen with normal aging. The studied groups included randomly selected men with newly diagnosed primary hypertension at baseline (n = 23) and normotensive (NT) men of the same age (n = 11). The hypertensives (HT) were treated with beta-blockers either as monotherapy or combined with diuretics or hydralazine. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR; inulin clearance), renal blood flow (RBF, para-aminohippurate clearance), renal vascular resistance (RVR), and 24-h UAE were determined. The two groups were investigated at baseline (before treatment) and after 7 and 14 years. At baseline, BP and RVR were significantly increased and RBF was significantly decreased in the HT over that in the NT. The BP in the HT was significantly reduced after 7 years of treatment and a further but nonsignificant reduction to 139 +/- 14/88 +/- 6 mm Hg (mean +/- SD) was seen after 14 years. GFR in the HT was significantly reduced from 103 +/- 15 mL/min to 84 +/- 19 mL/min (mean +/- SD) after 7 years, but no further reduction was seen after 14 years. During the 14 years RBF decreased and RVR increased in the HT but these changes were of the same magnitude as in the NT. The UAE did not change significantly during the study. In conclusion, good blood pressure control with conventional antihypertensive treatment in mild to moderate primary hypertension seems to protect the kidney from progressive decline in GFR and increase in UAE. The increase in RVR and the decrease in RBF seen during 14 years of antihypertensive treatment was of the same magnitude as that seen with normal aging.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8879340
Antihypertensive treatment is known to slow down the decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) with time. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition has been shown to be more effective in this regard than conventional antihypertensive therapy. In a recent prospective, randomized, double blind trial in 257 patients with essential hypertension, the loss of GFR, determined with 51Cr-EDTA clearance, was significantly less with an ACE inhibitor (cilazapril) than with a beta-adrenoceptor blocker (atenolol) during the first year of treatment. However, after 2 years, the two therapies were equally effective in this regard, thereby creating doubts about the long-term superiority of ACE inhibition in this regard. In order to elucidate whether the superior renal preservation with the ACE inhibitor was a transient effect, GFR was measured after 1 more year of treatment, i.e., after 36 months. At that time, the decline in GFR was significantly smaller in the ACE inhibitor group as compared to the beta-adrenoceptor blocker group (-3.0 [-5.5, -1.0; 95% CI] v -7.0 [-9.0, -4.5; 95% CI] mL/min x 1.73 m2; P = .026). This demonstrates that in the treatment of essential hypertension ACE inhibition preserves GFR significantly better than beta-adrenoceptor blockade during long-term therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8879341
Quality of life is an important attribute of antihypertensive therapy. Previous studies have not addressed the importance of a patient's prior pharmacotherapy on quality of life, which may serve as the basis of reference for a new therapy. Nor have previous studies compared commonly used quality of life instruments for consistency, or investigated whether improvement or worsening of quality of life correlates with adverse events or blood pressure reduction. Two hundred eighteen hypertensive patients with diastolic blood pressure (95 to 114 mm Hg) after a 4- to 5-week placebo washout period were enrolled in a randomized double-blind, parallel group dose-escalation trial to compare the effects of amlodipine (2.5 to 10 mg), bisoprolol (2.5 to 10 mg)/hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 6.25, and enalapril (5 to 20 mg) on blood pressure, adverse events, and quality of life. Three quality of life instruments (General Well-Being Index, Vital Signs Quality of Life, Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale) were administered during original therapy, after placebo washout, and after 12 weeks of optimally titrated clinical trial pharmacotherapy. Our results demonstrated that removal from prior therapy had no detectable influence on subsequent evaluation of quality of life. The three quality of life instruments were consistent with the changes observed with the three therapies: a trend toward better quality of life with amlodipine and bisoprolol/HCTZ. Adverse events, but not systolic or diastolic blood pressure reduction correlated directly with changes in quality of life.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8879603
The Swedish Trial in Old Patients with Hypertension-2 (STOP-Hypertension-2) was designed by a project group of the Swedish Hypertension Society to test whether the "newer" treatment alternatives (ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists) are as good as, better or less good than, the "older" ones (beta-blockers and diuretics) in terms of preventing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in elderly hypertensives. The aim of the present paper is to report on the progress of the study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8879897
The efficacy and tolerability of subcutaneous (SC) sumatriptan administered with the IMITREX (sumatriptan succinate) STATdose System, which circumvents the need for patients or health care professionals to handle a syringe, were evaluated in two randomized, double-masked, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, multicenter studies. In the clinic, 158 adults with migraine diagnosed according to International Headache Society criteria received SC sumatriptan (6 mg) or placebo delivered with the IMITREX STATdose System for treatment of a migraine attack. By 120 minutes after SC dosing, 73% and 79% of sumatriptan-treated patients, compared with 28% and 37% of placebo-treated patients in studies 1 and 2, respectively, experienced headache relief (a statistically significant difference). Clinical disability scores 120 minutes after dosing showed that 75% and 85% of sumatriptan-treated patients, compared with 30% and 42% of placebo-treated patients, were normal or only mildly impaired (a statistically significant difference). Similar efficacy rates were observed for nausea, phonophobia, and photophobia. No serious or unusual adverse events occurred, and no clinically relevant abnormalities in laboratory test values were reported. Based on these results, we concluded that SC sumatriptan (6 mg) administered using the IMITREX STATdose System is effective for the treatment of migraine. The efficacy and tolerability profiles of SC sumatriptan administered with this device are similar to those reported for SC sumatriptan administered with a conventional syringe.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8880046
This international postmarketing observational study of flunarizine was designed to evaluate, in routine clinical practice, the risk/benefit ratio of flunarizine in its approved indications, namely prophylaxis of migraine and treatment of vertigo. Comparator drugs were propranolol in migraine and betahistine in vertigo. The study was carried out by 498 general practitioners in Belgium, The Netherlands and Germany, whose participation had been requested by mail. In total 3186 patients were entered: 1601 in the two migraine cohorts and 1585 in the two vertigo cohorts.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8880057
To study the influence of the lipase inhibitor orlistat on the pharmacokinetics of the antihypertensive drugs atenolol, furosemide, captopril and nifedipine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8889897
Recognition of the existence of circadian variation in exacerbation of cardiovascular disease may have relevance to clinical use of cardioactive agents. Physiologic rational for the chronobiology of cardiac disease exists and can provide a basis on which to examine the efficacy of agents to manage cardiac disease. The use of 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) devices have advanced our ability to describe the interplay of chronobiologic rhythms and pharmacodynamic response to antihypertensive medications. This review summarizes the studies evaluating the use of various antihypertensive medications in the context of using 24-hour blood pressure monitoring devices. The studies are described in an attempt to increase awareness of chronobiology and potential implications of designing chronotherapeutic regimens.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8892775
This study was undertaken to compare the effects of alpha-receptor blockade and beta-receptor blockade on left ventricular structure and function in essential hypertension. The increase in left ventricular mass in patients with essential hypertension is at least partly induced by the sympathetic nervous system. We conducted a double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial to compare the effects of alpha-blockers and beta-blockers on left ventricular structure and function. Forty-three patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension were randomly allocated to receive antihypertensive therapy with either the alpha-blocker bunazosin (n = 23) or the beta-blocker metoprolol (n = 20). Twenty-four-hour blood pressure measurements and echocardiographic measurements of left ventricular structure and function were performed before therapy, after 6 months of therapy, and 4 weeks after discontinuation of therapy. Bunazosin and metoprolol led to similar reductions in systolic/diastolic blood pressure (-11 +/- 11/-9 +/- 8 mm Hg vs -11 +/- 12/-8 +/- 9 mm Hg, respectively) and left ventricular mass (-25 +/- 42 gm vs -28 +/- 44 gm, respectively) (p = no significant difference, bunazosin vs metoprolol). Neither metoprolol nor bunazosin significantly affected left ventricular systolic function. Diastolic left ventricular filling, however, was increased with beta-blocker medication, as indicated by a decrease in atrial filling fraction (39% +/- 5% to 34% +/- 5%; p < 0.05), but not with the alpha-blocker. The effect of metoprolol resulted from its bradycardiac effect. Four weeks after discontinuation of therapy, blood pressure and left ventricular mass increased to pretreatment levels in both groups similarly. Furthermore, the increase in diastolic filling was lost shortly after withdrawal of metoprolol concomitant with the increase in heart rate. We conclude that alpha-blockers and beta-blockers are equally capable of reducing left ventricular mass in hypertensive patients. beta-Blockers lead to an increase in diastolic left ventricular filling. This effect may be of therapeutic value because diastolic dysfunction may precede systolic dysfunction in hypertensive heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8894261
In a double-blind placebo-controlled parallel study, we assessed basal and post-therapeutic sympathetic activity both in supine and standing positions in mildly to moderately hypertensive patients by two different methods: frequency domain indices of heart rate variability (HRV) and plasma levels of both noradrenaline (NA) and its metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DOPEG). Patients were evaluated on placebo and after 8 weeks of treatment with either cilazapril, 2.5-5 mg/day (13 patients) or atenolol, 50-100 mg/day (14 patients). Twenty-four-hour blood pressure was similarly reduced (p < 0.01) by both cilazapril and atenolol. Heart rate decreased with atenolol by 14 beats per min (p < 0.001) but did not change with cilazapril. When compared to the placebo, cilazapril did not modify sympathetic activity indices of HRV but did significantly reduce NA and DOPEG levels in both the supine and standing (p < 0.05) positions. As expected, atenolol reduced (p < 0.05) sympathetic activity indices of HRV but did not modify NA levels in either position. Moreover, while on placebo, patients showed no significant correlations between values of NA or DOPEG, nor in any of the HRV indices. We conclude that: (1) the antihypertensive effects of cilazapril and atenolol are similar, but in these patients, sympathetic activity indices showed divergent results both before and after therapy; (2) this may be due to different aspects of sympathetic activators, assessed independently by different methods, and (3) these discrepancies must be taken into account when evaluating autonomous nervous system parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8894262
Evaluation of safety and efficacy of new drugs is based largely on data from clinical trials involving a limited number of patients. This approach does not necessarily detect the rare adverse events that may only be observed when very large numbers of patients are studied. Consequently, we designed a double-blind 12-week trial comparing the new angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, quinapril (n = 5,053), with a well-established beta-adrenergic receptor blocker, metoprolol (n = 506). Essentially hypertensive patients (diastolic blood pressure 95-114 mm Hg) received either 10 mg quinapril or 50 mg metoprolol once daily, and the doses were doubled at 4-week intervals to a maximum of 40 and 200 mg, respectively, in nonresponders. Responder rates were similar under both regimens. Adverse events were assessed by interview as well as by a standard questionnaire. The overall prevalence of adverse events reported by standard questionnaire was higher than that reported spontaneously during interviews. With respect to typical ACE inhibitor adverse reactions (e.g. cough and taste disturbances), there was no difference between quinapril and metoprolol independent of the mode of reporting. In summary, both drugs showed comparable overall tolerance and safety. The discrepancy between spontaneously reported and questionnaire-reported adverse events was noteworthy, and this finding prevailed in a volunteer group of 327 patients who were treated with quinapril for 52 weeks. Thus, a questionnaire is of great significance in addition to the patient history/interview in a large-scale, double-blind study designed to learn about details of drug safety.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8901656
Recent laboratory and epidemiological studies have suggested that high levels of anger may increase the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8902255
Cyclandelate inhibits calcium-induced contraction of vascular smooth muscle cells, platelet aggregation induced by thrombin, platelet-activating-factor and adenosine, and also suppresses a provoked 5HT release from platelets. This pharmacological profile suggests that cyclandelate may have a potential prophylactic effect in migraine. To test this hypothesis, a double-blind multicentre study was performed in 214 patients to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of cyclandelate compared to placebo and propranolol. After a 4-week baseline period, eligible patients (randomization 3:2:3) were treated for 12 weeks with daily doses of 1.200 mg cyclandelate (n = 81), placebo (n = 55) or 120 mg propranolol (n = 78). The number of migraine attacks (> or = 50% responders) and the migraine duration/month were compared based on the difference between baseline and the last 4 weeks of prophylactic treatment. The percentage of patients with a reduction in migraine attacks of > or = 50% treated with cyclandelate (37.0%) or propranolol (42.3%) was not significantly superior to placebo (30.9%; p > 0.025). The mean duration of migraine in hours (h) per month decreased in both active treatment groups (cyclandelate: 36.8 h, p = 0.046; propranolol: 34.4 h, p = 0.039) compared to placebo (13.7 h) without reaching statistical significance (alpha/2 = 0.025). The clinical efficacy of cyclandelate and propranolol was comparable. Adverse experiences were reported by 13 patients (16.0%) treated with cyclandelate, by 5 patients (9.1%) treated with placebo and by 19 patients (24.4%) treated with propranolol. These were drug-related in 7.1% (n = 6) of patients treated with cyclandelate and in 9% (n = 7) of patients treated with propranolol. In summary, cyclandelate has a comparable efficacy to that of propranolol, an established drug of first choice in the prophylaxis of migraine. Both drugs were better than placebo, but not significantly so. Both active treatments were well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8904256
Different combinations of neuromuscular blockers and opioids have been used in patients with angina pectoris to provide cardiovascular stability and reduce risk of myocardial ischaemia during anaesthesia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8913546
Losartan is the first drug of a new therapeutic class, the angiotensin II (A II)-receptor antagonists, to be clinically studied and become available for the management of hypertension. Clinical experience with losartan from worldwide, double-blind, controlled studies has been obtained in more than 2900 hypertensive patients treated with losartan alone or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide, with 1700 patients receiving treatment for more than a year. The efficacy of losartan was evaluated in the young and old, in different degrees of hypertension, in blacks and nonblacks, and in patients with renal impairment. Tolerability parameters were assessed by subgroup as well. In dose-ranging studies, 50 mg once daily has generally been shown to produce near maximum effects and a dose of 100 mg does not produce additional effects. The efficacy of losartan (50 to 100 mg once daily) has been compared to atenolol (50 to 100 mg once daily), felodipine ER (5 to 10 mg once daily), and enalapril (20 mg once daily). The blood pressure-lowering effect of losartan was comparable to felodipine, enalapril, and atenolol. The efficacy of losartan was demonstrated using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, which showed that losartan 50 mg once daily produced gradual reduction in blood pressure, providing 24-h control without affecting the body's circadian rhythm. In subgroups of study populations, no differences in efficacy were noted with respect to age, gender and the severity of hypertension. No initial dosage adjustment is necessary in the elderly and patients with renal impairment (even those on dialysis). Among blacks, the mean response of losartan was lower, which is not surprising given the lesser activation of the renin-angiotensin system in this population. A subgroup safety and tolerability analysis confirmed that there were no important differences in adverse events when assessed by age, race, or gender. The data obtained from controlled clinical trials conducted with losartan, the first A II-receptor antagonist, has shown that a single daily 50-mg dose provides adequate 24-h control of blood pressure in most patients with comparable efficacy to other classes and is well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8914031
Treatment of hypertension with ACE inhibitors in diabetic patients reduces proteinuria and slows progression of nephropathy compared with agents that do not maintain declines in proteinuria. Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) have variable effects on proteinuria; their long-term effects on progression of diabetic nephropathy are not known. The current study examines the hypothesis that CCBs that maintain reductions in proteinuria slow progression of nephropathy associated with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) by a degree comparable to ACE inhibitors, given similar levels of blood pressure control. To test this hypothesis we randomized 52 patients with NIDDM associated nephropathy and hypertension, mean age of 63 +/- 8 years, to either the ACE inhibitor, lisinopril (N = 18), nondihydropyridine CCBs (NDCCBs), verapamil SR (N = 8) or diltiazem SR (N = 10), or the beta blocker, atenolol (N = 16). Goal blood pressure was < or = 140/90 mm Hg. Patients were followed for a mean period of 63 +/- 7 months. The primary end point was change in creatinine clearance (CCr) slope in each group. There was no significant difference in mean arterial pressure reduction among the groups over the study period (P = 0.14). The mean rate of decline in CCr was greatest in the atenolol group (-3.48 ml/min/year/1.73 m2; P < 0.0001). There was no difference in the CCr slopes between lisinopril and NDCCBs groups (P = 0.36). Proteinuria was reduced to a similar extent in the lisinopril and NDCCBs groups (P > 0.99). Therefore, in persons with renal insufficiency secondary to NIDDM, similar levels of blood pressure control with either lisinopril or NDCCBs slowed progression of renal disease to a greater extent than atenolol. Moreover, this enhanced slowing of renal disease progression correlated with sustained and significant reductions in proteinuria, findings not observed in the atenolol group.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8915229
To compare the usefulness of dipyridamole echocardiography, dobutamine-atropine echocardiography, and exercise stress testing in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease and to analyze the agreement among the tests.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8916473
Arrhythmias are common after cardiac surgery and are associated with hemodynamic compromise, stroke, and prolonged hospitalization. Beta blockers prevent atrial fibrillation postoperatively, but there are few data regarding the prophylactic use of type 1 antiarrhythmic agents or the prevention of ventricular arrhythmias. Accordingly, we performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effects of oral procainamide on 100 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery. Procainamide was received for 4 days; the dosage was adjusted for body weight. Patients receiving procainamide had a significant reduction in atrial fibrillation (16 vs 29 patient-days, p < 0.05) and ventricular tachycardia (2% vs 20%, p < 0.01). However, the incidence of atrial fibrillation was not significantly reduced (38% vas 26%). In the group achieving therapeutic serum procainamide levels, there was reduction in all measured postoperative arrhythmias. No serious cardiac or noncardiac adverse events were noted during procainamide therapy, although there was a significant increase in the incidence of nausea. We conclude that procainamide reduces arrhythmias in the early postoperative period after coronary artery bypass surgery, most prominently in patients who achieve therapeutic serum levels. This was associated with no serious cardiac adverse reactions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8916563
Divalproex sodium is an anticonvulsant agent approved for use either alone or in combination with other antiepileptic drugs for simple and complex absences seizures and mania. Four double-blind placebo-controlled studies have confirmed that divalproex sodium/valproate is an effective migraine treatment. In all of the clinical studies, whether open, retrospective, or placebo-controlled and double-blind, valproate was an effective preventive treatment for migraine. There was a reduction in the number of migraine attacks, and migraine duration and intensity were also reduced in some instances. It is equally as effective in patients with severe frequent migraines as in those with less severe migraines. In clinical trials, the most frequent adverse events reported by patients treated with divalproex sodium were nausea, asthenia, dyspepsia, dizziness, somnolence, and diarrhea, with most adverse events being mild to moderate in severity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8927880
In the present double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study 36 untreated patients (57.8 +/- 8.4 years) with mild to moderate hypertension were included. After a 14 days' placebo period they were treated with a combination of 20 mg retarded nifedipine and 25 or 50 mg atenolol for six weeks each. Group A started with 25 mg, group B with 50 mg atenolol. Casual sitting blood pressure was measured automatically every second week, routine laboratory parameters and side effects were evaluated at the end of placebo and the verum periods. The blood pressure of the two groups was comparable during placebo and was reduced by 31.6/14.7 mmHg in group A or 29.9/15.8 mmHg in group B (p < 0.001 vs. placebo) after six weeks. In the second treatment period with verum, blood pressure was not further reduced. Both combinations were equally efficient also in the female and the elder subgroups (> 60 years) who were characterized by higher systolic blood pressure. The response rates were 83% and 86% for the combination with 25 and 50 mg atenolol respectively. Heart rate was significantly reduced in all groups during 50 mg atenolol. Laboratory parameters were not altered by treatment. Frequency and severeness of side effects were equal in both groups. It is concluded that in patients with mild to moderate uncomplicated hypertension the combination of 20 mg retarded nifedipine with 25 mg atenolol is equally efficient to the combination with 50 mg atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8929232
Bunazosin (CAS 52712-76-2), a quinazoline derivative, selectively blocks alpha1-receptors. In addition to its potent antihypertensive property, beneficial effects on lipid metabolism, glucose metabolism, vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, it can be used in the presence of concomitant diseases, such as obstructive bronchitis, chronic renal insufficiency, peripheral arterial occlusive disease, and diabetes mellitus. In its extended-release formulation (bunazosin retard), it is generally a well-tolerated alpha1-blocker when compared to other agents in its class. Pharmacokinetic studies in normotensive volunteers showed that plasma peak concentration (Cmax) of bunazosin retard and bioavailability were approximately 50% and 81%, respectively, of the values of the standard non-retarded formulation. Bunazosin is metabolized mainly in the liver, and urine excretion accounts for only 10% of unchanged bunazosin. Following oral administration of 6 mg bunazosin retard to healthy volunteers, Cmax was 15 ng/ml, time to reach peak level (tmax) was 4 h and elimination half life was about 12 h. Bunazosin retard has Cmax and area underthe concentration curve (AUC) to be linearly related to the dose between 3 and 18 mg (r = 0.8). As expected, patients with impaired hepatic functions have shown an increase in AUC, Cmax, and elimination half live values. The hemodynamic effects of bunazosin are due to arterial vasodilation, reduced peripheral vascular resistance and cardiac afterload with moderate increase increase of cardiac output. Bunazosin was shown to decrease the systolic and diastolic blood pressure without a reflex tachycardia. In addition to its hypotensive effects bunazosin significantly increased the effective renal blood flow (by 34%) and creatinine clearance (by 37%) in patients with essential hypertension. In patients with impaired renal function bunazosin exhibits better increase in the effective renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate when compared to other alpha1-blockers (e.g. prazosin). Results of double-blind, randomized trials in 343 hypertensive patients showed bunazosin to be a equipotent hypertensive agent without multiple titration as usually necessary for other alpha-blockers. Diastolic blood pressure was normalized (< or equal 90 mmHg) or reduced by at least 10 mm Hg in 47% and 46% of patients, respectively. Results of two one-year long term studies in more than 600 young and elderly hypertensive patients gave no hint for tachyphylaxia. Bunazosin proved to be superior to prazosin in terms of orthostatic tolerance, as tested with the Schellong test. In conclusion due to its antihypertensive properties, beneficial effects on vascular smooth muscle cells, glucose metabolism , and lipid profile, and the less likelihood of orthostatic hypotension following treatment, bunazosin reard can be considered a useful antihypertensive agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8929262
Perioperative myocardial ischemia is the single most important potentially reversible risk factor for mortality and cardiovascular complications after noncardiac surgery. Although more than 1 million patients have such complications annually, there is no effective preventive therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8933239
Beta-blocking agents reduce mortality and improve symptoms in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). There have been reports that diltiazem, a calcium-blocking agent, is also effective in such patients. We prospectively compared the effects of the beta-blocking agent bisoprolol with those of the calcium-blocking agent diltiazem in 18 patients (11 males and 7 females, age 14 to 68) with DCM. The 18 patients, (10 in New York Heart Association functional class III and 8 in class IV) were randomly assigned to 2 groups. Bisoprolol was administered as the first drug in 10 patients and diltiazem was administered in 8. Cross-over to bisoprolol was also performed in 3 patients. At the end of the study, among the 13 patients who had been given bisoprolol, 9 showed a good response (efficacy rate: 69%). In contrast, only 3 of the 8 patients who received diltiazem showed a good response (efficacy rate: 37.5%). Among the patients in NYHA class III, all 7 (100%) who were treated with bisoprolol responded but only 2 of the 4 (50%) treated with diltiazem responded (p < 0.05). Among the patients in class IV, 2 of 6 (33%) responded to bisoprolol and 1 of 4 (25%) responded to diltiazem (not significant). These results suggest that diltiazem, like bisoprolol, has a beneficial effect in patients with DCM, with a greater effect in class III patients. However, we conclude that diltiazem should usually be used as a second choice to improve heart failure in DCM, and as the first medication only in those with contraindications to beta-blocking agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8935302
This study attempted to evaluate the efficacy of several "long-acting" antihypertensive agents. One-hundred consecutive hypertensive subjects with normal casual blood pressure after once-daily antihypertensive monotherapy treatment were studied. They were divided into three groups: group A, metoprolol (100 mg, daily); group B, atenolol (100 mg, daily); and group C, nadolol (80 mg, daily). Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) was used to evaluate the efficacy of the antihypertensive agents. The overall average ambulatory blood pressures were within the normal limits for all three groups. However, there were some abnormally high blood pressure (BP) readings shown on ABPM. Patients with an abnormally high systolic blood pressure (SBP) average > 140 mmHg accounted for 16.7% of group A, 19.4% of group B and 20% of group C. Those with an abnormally high diastolic blood pressure (DBP) average > 90 mmHg accounted for 16.7%, 19.4% and 10%, respectively, of the corresponding groups. There were no significant differences in the frequency of abnormally high SBP and DBP among the three groups. These "long-acting" antihypertensive drugs did not effectively control BP throughout the entire day. The duration of antihypertensive effect is not necessarily reflected by the blood half-life of the drug. ABPM is an effective way to ascertain the efficacy of "long-acting" hypertensive agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8937059
Perioperative myocardial infarction (POMI) carries a high mortality and occurs more commonly in patients with a history of coronary artery disease (CAD). However, there are also other patients undergoing surgery who are 'at risk' for CAD but who do not have a history of infarction or angina. We compared the incidence of POMI in these two groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8941104
Carvedilol has improved the symptomatic status of patients with moderate to severe heart failure in single-center studies, but its clinical effects have not been evaluated in large, multicenter trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8941105
We tested the hypothesis that carvedilol inhibits clinical progression in patients with mildly symptomatic heart failure due to left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8941106
We conducted a multicenter, placebo-controlled trial designed to establish the efficacy and safety of carvedilol, a "third-generation" beta -blocking agent with vasodilator properties, in chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8948517
During the past two decades, major investigative interest has been focused on the determinants of chronic renal disease and interventions to retard the inexorable progression to end-stage renal disease. Recent studies have provided a theoretic framework for anticipating that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and possibly calcium antagonists, may preferentially retard the progression of renal disease. Whereas the majority of available clinical trials have assessed the effects of ACE inhibitors in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), there are relatively few long-term studies that have evaluated the renal protective effects of ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists in patients with nondiabetic renal disease. Although clinical trials have been initiated using both of these drug classes as monotherapy, theoretical considerations suggest that fixed-dose combinations of an ACE inhibitor and a calcium antagonist might be appealing as renal protective agents. Several lines of evidence suggest that the renal microcirculatory effects of coadministration of both agents should be complementary. Similarly, recent observations suggest that the two classes may act in a complementary manner to countervail pathogenetic mechanisms at the level of the mesangium. A recent study in type II diabetic patients demonstrated that combination therapy with an ACE inhibitor and a calcium antagonist induced the greatest reduction in proteinuria, and reduced the rate of decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) more than did either agent alone at the same level of blood pressure reduction. Based on such considerations, recent randomized prospective studies have been initiated to compare the renal protective effects of combination calcium antagonist-ACE inhibitor therapy versus monotherapy with agents of either of these two antihypertensive classes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8960472
Unsustained ventricular tachycardia in patients with previous myocardial infarction and left ventricular dysfunction is associated with a two-year mortality rate of about 30 percent. We studied whether prophylactic therapy with an implanted cardioverter-defibrillator, as compared with conventional medical therapy, would improve survival in this high-risk group of patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8960842
We report the efficacy of therapy over 5 years follow-up in 758 non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients in a prospective, randomised controlled study of therapy of mild hypertension. Patients were recruited who on antihypertensive therapy had systolic blood pressure over 150 mmHg or diastolic over 85 mmHg, or if not on therapy had systolic blood pressure over 160 mmHg or diastolic over 90 mmHg. Their mean blood pressure at entry to the study was 160/94 mmHg at a mean age of 57 years. They were allocated to tight control (aiming for systolic < 150/diastolic < 85 mmHg) or to less tight control (aiming for systolic < 180/diastolic < 105 mmHg). The tight control group were allocated to primary therapy either with a beta blocker (atenolol) or with an antiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril), with addition of other agents as required. Over 5 years, the mean blood pressure in the tight control group was significantly lower (143/82 vs 154/88 mmHg, p < 0.001). No difference was seen between those allocated to atenolol or captopril. The proportion of patients requiring three or more antihypertensive therapies to maintain tight control in those allocated to atenolol or captopril increased from 16 and 15%, respectively at 2 years to 25 and 26%, respectively at 5 years, whereas in the less tight control group at 2 and 5 years only 5 and 7%, respectively required three or more therapies. There was no difference in the incidence of side effects or hypoglycaemic episodes between those allocated to atenolol or captopril, but those allocated to atenolol increased their body weight by a mean of 2.3 kg compared with 0.5 kg in those allocated to captopril (p < 0.01). Allocation to atenolol was also associated with small increases in triglyceride, and decreases in LDL and HDL cholesterol, which are of uncertain clinical relevance. The study is continuing to determine whether the improved blood pressure control, which was obtained, will be beneficial in maintaining the health of patients by decreasing the incidence of major clinical complications, principally myocardial infarction and strokes, and microvascular complications, such as severe retinopathy requiring photocoagulation and deterioration of renal function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8960851
The clinical importance of selection of different antihypertensive drugs for the treatment of diabetic patients is still unclear. Thus we performed a randomised, controlled study in 105 hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetic (NIDDM) patients with microalbuminuria over 1 year. Patients received either the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor ramipril (2.5-5.0 mg/day; in addition 24% of patients also received felodipine) or the beta blocking agent atenolol (50-100 mg/day; in addition 24% of patients also received hydrochlorothiazide). Blood pressure, metabolic control, lipid levels and albumin excretion rate were studied during the follow-up. After 1 year an almost identical fall (p < 0.001) in blood pressure was observed with ramipril (170/100 vs 150/ 85 mmHg, median) and atenolol (180/100 vs 150/ 80 mmHg, median). With ramipril a reduction of total cholesterol (6.3 vs 5.9 mmol/l), of LDL cholesterol (3.8 vs 3.6 mmol/l) and HDL cholesterol (1.3 vs 1.2 mmol/l) was found, whereas triglycerides slightly increased (1.8 vs 2.0 mmol/l). With atenolol a similar reduction of total cholesterol (6.3 vs 5.9 mmol/l), LDL cholesterol (3.8 vs 3.7 mmol/l) and HDL cholesterol (1.4 vs 1.2 mmol/l) and an increase of triglycerides (1.4 vs 1.7 mmol/l) was noted. Metabolic control of the patients was maintained with both ramipril and atenolol treatment. With ramipril treatment urinary albumin creatinine ratio (14.4 vs 13.8 mg/mmol) and creatinine clearance (82 vs 84 ml/min) were constant, but with atenolol an increase of albumin creatinine ratio (13.9 vs 19 mg/mmol, p < 0.001) and a slight decrease of creatinine clearance (80 vs 66 ml/min, p < 0.05, not significant after Bonferroni correction) was observed. In conclusion: 1-year treatment of NIDDM patients with ramipril or atenolol does not influence metabolic control, the changes in serum lipids were similar. Despite almost identical blood pressure reduction in both groups the albumin creatinine ratio was constant under ramipril, but increased under atenolol treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8968014
To assess the effect of low-dose, diuretic-based antihypertensive treatment on major cardiovascular disease (CVD) event rates in older, non-insulin-treated diabetic patients with isolated systolic hypertension (ISH), compared with nondiabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8970416
In contrast to Vaughan Williams class I drugs, class III drugs, such as d-sotalol, may not be negative inotropic. These drugs block potassium ion channels and prolong repolarization, theoretically leading to improved contractility. We investigated the hemodynamic actions of acute intravenous administration of 1.5 mg/kg of d-sotalol in 28 patients with congestive heart failure randomized to receive placebo (n = 10) or active drug (n = 18) in a double-blind study. A Swan-Ganz catheter was placed in all patients > or = 16 hours before drug administration. All hemodynamic variables were assessed at baseline and 30 minutes and 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 hours after administration of the drug. Electrocardiograms were obtained before and 1, 2, 4, and 12 hours after drug administration. The QT interval increased from 370 +/- 9 to 426 +/- 14 ms at 1 hour, whereas the QTc increased from 433 +/- 5 to 470 +/- 12 ms (both p < 0.001). The increase was still statistically significant at 12 hours. There was no change in the placebo group. Although heart rate decreased in the d-sotalol group (84 +/- 2 to 76 +/- 2 at 1 hour, p < 0.001), there were no changes in blood pressure or right atrial pressure. Cardiac index decreased slightly (2.0 +/- 0.2 to 1.9 +/- 0.1 mm Hg), consistent with the lower heart rate. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased from 18.9 +/- 2.4 to 17.9 +/- 1.9 mm Hg at 1 hour despite reduced cardiac index. We conclude that in contrast to class I, II, and IV antiarrhythmic drugs, d-sotalol exerts no clinically important acute hemodynamic actions at doses that produce electrophysiologic effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8972892
The aim was to evaluate the effects of a change of treatment from beta-blocker to captopril on the quality of life of hypertensive patients. One hundred forty-nine mild to moderate hypertensive patients who were being treated with beta-blockers were randomly assigned to receive captopril (12.5 to 50 mg twice daily), or to continue on beta-blocker treatment (atenolol: 25 to 100 mg once daily [n = 121], or propranolol, 10 to 80 mg twice daily [n = 12]). When required, 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide was added in each group. The patients were followed over periods ranging from 6 to 12 months. Blood pressure, treatment side effects, and quality of life were monitored. Blood pressure was equally well managed in both groups, though a lower level of treatment was required in the captopril group. The captopril treated patients exhibited favorable changes in several aspects of quality of life: sleep-related, gastrointestinal, and physical activity-related symptoms improved from baseline to end of follow-up. Drowsiness and the ability to concentrate significantly improved in the captopril group only (P <.01). Change in treatment from beta-blocker to captopril resulted in equally well controlled blood pressure on a lower drug dose. Moreover, the change to captopril had a positive impact on the quality of life.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8973428
The risk of having a first cirrhosis-associated variceal bleed is lowered by about 50% by beta-blockers. Use of beta-blockers is currently recommended for patients with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices that are at risk of bleeding. We aimed to test the effectiveness of isosorbide mononitrate as an adjunct to the beta-blocker nadolol in the prophylaxis of first variceal bleeding in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8973753
The effects of bunazosin and atenolol on serum lipids and lipoproteins after 6 months of treatment were compared in this multicentric, double-blind, randomised trial. A total of 174 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension from 15 hospitals in Germany and Poland was included in the study. Eighty-seven were treated with the alpha-receptor blocker bunazosin and the same number with the beta-blocker atenolol. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased significantly in both groups, whereas only atenolol decreased pulse rate. In the bunazosin group HDL-cholesterol was significantly increased after 6 months of treatment, whereas all other analysed parameters remained unchanged. In the atenolol group total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, total triglycerides, apolipoprotein E, VLDL-cholesterol and VLDL-triglycerides were significantly increased after 6 months of therapy. There was a significant difference between bunazosin and atenolol for total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, VLDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, VLDL-triglycerides and apolipoprotein B levels. As a consequence, there was a significant difference in the atherogenic index of both groups. We conclude that bunazosin is favorable in the treatment of high blood pressure, because the coronary risk is not negatively influenced as shown for atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8973780
In the ELSA trial, the effects of lacidipine-based treatment and beta-blocker (atenolol)-based treatment on the development and progression of carotid wall alterations are assessed in hypertensive patients. The primary endpoint of this study is the rate of change in the intima-media thickness of the carotid artery wall, measured with B-mode ultrasound. About 2300 hypertensive patients have been recruited and randomized to either of the antihypertensive agents. Baseline data for 1965 patients are available, showing a high prevalence of carotid wall lesions: about 82% of the subjects have an intima-media thickness > or = 1.3 mm, defined as plaque in the ELSA protocol; 16% of the subjects have intima-media thickening (> or = 1.0 mm, < 1.3 mm) and only about 1% have normal carotid artery walls. Analysis of demographic data and risk factor prevalence in ELSA patients, and comparison of these preliminary observations with data from other intervention or observational studies indicate that high blood pressure is a very important risk factor for carotid atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8973986
The conceptual framework for treatment of congestive heart failure has changed dramatically in the past 30 years. The 1950s and 1960s were characterized by manipulation of the left ventricular function curve by digitalis and diuretics. The 1970s focused on relief of symptoms by afterload reduction with vasodilators. Then stimulation of cardiac output with inotropes was shown to relieve symptoms, but patients died sooner. Now the focus is on the neurohumeral milieu and methods to counteract excess renin-angiotensin and sympathetic nervous system stimulation. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are the drugs of choice because they also improve survival, but beta-blockers are becoming popular. The effect of molecular cardiology on practice guidelines for congestive heart failure is yet to be seen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8973991
The effects of high-protein food on the bioavailability of both the racemate and individual enantiomers of verapamil were investigated in 12 healthy volunteers using a randomized crossover design. Food had no effect on any parameter of bioavailability for both the racemate and the individual enantiomers of verapamil except time to maximum concentration (tmax), which was significantly prolonged after food intake. The pharmacokinetics of the enantiomers of norverapamil were not significantly changed by food intake. These results suggest that high-protein food does not alter the pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of either the racemate or the individual enantiomers of verapamil. Therefore, the clinical efficacy of verapamil is not related to food intake, except for a slight prolongation in the time to onset of the pharmacologic effects. The present data can be applied to the high-protein content meal intake.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8984131
To compare the effect of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor ramipril with that of the beta-blocker atenolol on reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy, on blood pressure and on other echocardiographic parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8985266
A meta-analysis of 12 selected randomized trials was performed to assess the efficacy of beta-blockers in the prevention of rebleeding and the effect on long-term survival in patients with cirrhosis. Five end points were assessed: rebleeding, variceal rebleeding, death, death from bleeding, and adverse events. Analyses were performed according to the intention-to-treat method. For each end point, heterogeneity and treatment efficacy were assessed by the Der Simonian and Peto methods. When a significant difference was observed, sensitivity analyses were performed by successive stratifications according to treatment duration, cause of initial bleeding, use of placebo, type of beta-blocker, type of publication, certainty of randomization, severity of cirrhosis, interval between index bleed and randomization, and methodological quality. Beta-blockers significantly increased the mean percentage of patients free of rebleeding (21% mean improvement rate, CI 95%: 10%-32%, P < .001, relative risk 1.42), the mean percentage of patients free of variceal rebleeding (20% mean improvement rate, CI 95%: 11%-28%, P < .001), the mean survival rate (5.4% mean improvement rate, CI 95%: 0%-11%, P = .05, relative risk 1.27), the mean percentage of patients free of bleeding death (7.4%, CI 95%: 2%-13%, P < .01, relative risk 1.50). Five patients would need to be treated with beta-blockers to prevent one rebleeding episode, 14 treated to prevent one death, and 13 treated to prevent one death from bleeding. There was no significant heterogeneity among studies by both methods of analysis. In patients with esophageal varices, beta-blockers significantly increase the mean percentage of patients free of rebleeding and the mean survival rate at 2 years.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8986932
To compare the effects of the alpha 1-blocker bunazosin retard and the beta 1-blocker atenolol (Uniloc) on insulin sensitivity and glucose and lipid homeostasis in patients with type-2 diabetes and hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8988452
Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), and trazodone, a heterocyclic antidepressant, are effective in the treatment of major depression and treatment resistant depression (TRD). Chronic treatment with both drugs causes increases in extracellular 5-HT through 5-HT reuptake inhibition and desensitization of inhibitory 5-HT1A autoreceptors. It has been shown that pindolol, a serotonin (5-HT)1A-receptor antagonist, may shorten the latency of onset of SSRIs in depression. The aim of the present study was to examine whether pindolol may increase the efficacy of a subtherapeutical dosage of trazodone in the treatment of major depression and TRD, defined according to the Thase and Rush criteria (1995). Thirty-three major depressed inpatients of whom 26 with TRD participated in this study. Ten days after hospitalization, treatment with trazodone 100 mg/day was started. After 1 week trazodone treatment, patients were randomized-using a double blind placebo controlled design-to receive trazodone 100 mg/day+placebo; trazodone 100 mg/day+pindolol 7.5 mg/day: or trazodone 100 mg/day+fluoxetine 20 mg/day and treated during 4 weeks. The 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) was used as outcome measure. It was found that trazodone+pindolol was as effective as trazodone+fluoxetine in the treatment of major depression and TRD and significantly more effective than trazodone+placebo. Using an outcome measure of 50% reduction in the HDRS, we found that 72.5% of the depressed patients treated with trazodone+pindolol and 75% of depressed patients treated with trazodone+fluoxetine showed a clinically significant response compared with 20.0% of trazodone+placebo-treated patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8994285
To compare endoscopic sclerotherapy, propranolol and distal splenorenal shunt in the prevention of rebleeding esophageal varices and mortality in alcoholic cirrhotics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8998247
The effect of atenolol and reserpine on incidence of strokes, coronary heart disease (CHD), cardiovascular disease (CVD), and mortality was assessed in 4736 persons aged 60 years and older with isolated systolic hypertension. Participants were randomized to either chlorthalidone (2371), with step-up to atenolol, or reserpine if needed, or placebo (2365). The average baseline SBP/DBP was 170/77 mm Hg. In the active treatment group, step 1, dose 1 was chlorthalidone, 12.5 mg/day; dose 2 was 25 mg/day. For step 2, dose 1 was atenolol 25 mg/day (or reserpine 0.05 mg/day if atenolol was contraindicated); dose 2 was 50 mg/day (reserpine, 0.10 mg/day). During 4.5 years average follow-up, 32% (757) of the active treatment group were on atenolol, with an average exposure of two years and 8% (193) were on reserpine with an average exposure of 1.7 years. Overall there were 96 strokes, 140 CHD events and 289 CVD events among the 2365 active group participants. Using time-dependent lifetable regression with adjustment for several variables, the addition of either atenolol or reserpine to chlorthalidone did not substantially alter the risk ratios for chlorthalidone alone. The relative risk for CHD events for atenolol versus no atenolol was 1.04 (95% confidence interval: 0.58, 1.86) and for reserpine versus no reserpine was 0.93 (95% confidence interval: 0.29, 2.96). The relative risk for atenolol were 0.84 (95% confidence interval: 0.54, 1.30) for death, 1.34 (95% confidence interval: 0.80, 2.28) for stroke, and 1.07 (95% confidence interval: 0.71, 1.61) for CVD. For reserpine, the corresponding relative risks and confidence intervals were 0.65 (0.26, 1.59) for death, 0.27 (0.04, 2.26) for stroke, and 0.55 (0.20, 1.49) for CVD. Thus, the beneficial effects in several outcomes in Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) were due to the treatment regimen of lowering blood pressure based on low-dose chlorthalidone (plus atenolol or reserpine as required to meet blood pressure criteria). Additional (independent) benefits attributable to atenolol or to reserpine were not identified. However, a greater number of patients might have been necessary to adequately evaluate potential differential effects of these drugs, especially for reserpine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9004102
In a 12-week, randomized, double-blind study, 24 patients with essential hypertension were given the angiotensin II antagonist losartan, or the beta-adrenoceptor blocker atenolol. Both drugs reduced blood pressure (BP) well, but losartan tended to reduce left ventricular mass (LVM) in contrast to atenolol. Following the double-blind phase 19 patients entered an open treatment period with losartan and additional treatment if BP was uncontrolled. LV structures were measured by echocardiography. The mean follow-up period was 29 +/- 2.6 (range 26-32) months. BP was reduced from 155.6 +/- 15.6/103.4 +/- 5.2 mm Hg to 131.3 +/- 10.5/82.7 +/- 3.3 mm Hg (P < 0.001). LV internal diameter was reduced (50.7 +/- 4.5 to 49.1 +/- 4.0 mm; P = 0.006), while there was an increase in interventricular septal thickness (10.2 +/- 1.1 to 11.2 +/- 1.3 mm; P = 0.001) and posterior wall thickness (10.0 +/- 0.9 to 10.6 +/- 1.1 mm; P = 0.023). Calculated LVM was not significantly altered during the follow-up period. In conclusion, losartan is effective in reducing BP during long-term treatment. No significant effect on LVM was observed, but there was an increase in LV wall thickness.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9005172
We describe a case of severe hypertension, due to multiple malignant norepinephrine secreting paragangliomas. Neuroendocrine system tumours are responsible for 0.1-0.5% cases of hypertension. Their extra-adrenal localisation is about 10%. Only 20% of paragangliomas are catecholamine secreting, and causing a syndrome similar to that of pheochromocytoma. In our patient the diagnosis of retroperitoneal multiple paragangliomas was made two years after the beginning of the typical symptoms. At surgery 6 paragangliomas were removed; some vascular and muscular structures (inferior vena cava, ileopsoas) were infiltrated. A radiotherapy treatment was conducted for a total dose of 55.8 Gy. Immediately after the operation blood pressure decreased, but the administration of alpha and beta blockers was required to reach normotension. This treatment was confirmed at six months follow-up, in consideration of the persistently high norepinephrine plasma levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9008243
The purpose of the present study was to test the effectiveness of a cognitive-behavioral intervention as an adjunctive treatment of hypertension. To qualify for the study, subjects had to have an unmedicated clinic diastolic blood pressure > or = 95 mm Hg. After qualification, minimal drug requirements were established using a diuretic and a beta-blocker to control blood pressure at < or = 90 mm Hg. Subjects were then randomized into a 6-week cognitive-behavioral intervention or a measurements-only control group. After the treatment phase, medication levels were reduced in all subjects by means of a systematic stepdown procedure. Subjects were followed for 1 year after the stepdown was completed. Addition of the cognitive-behavioral intervention was twice as effective as the control procedure in reducing drug requirements. At 12-months follow-up, 73% of the treatment group were at lower levels of medication than at the time of randomization, compared to 35% in the control group. Moreover, 55% of the treatment group remained completely free of medication, compared to 30% of the control group, at the 12-month follow-up. The reductions in medication were associated with maintained controlled levels of clinic, ambulatory, and home blood pressure. The addition of a standardized and inexpensive group-administered cognitive-behavioral intervention to the drug treatment of hypertension is beneficial as an adjunctive treatment in reducing drug requirements for patients with hypertension, thereby reducing the costs and potential side effects of antihypertensive medications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9008249
This study aimed to compare the efficacy of a patient-directed management strategy with office-based management in maintaining blood pressure control in patients with chronic stable hypertension using a randomized trial of two months duration. The subjects had chronic stable essential hypertension without secondary causes or unstable cardiovascular disease and were selected through the offices of 11 family physicians and a tertiary care hypertension research unit. Patients were randomly assigned (2:1 ratio) to either a patient-directed management strategy using home blood pressure monitoring to adjust drug therapy if readings consistently exceeded defined limits, or office-based management through physician visits. The primary endpoint was the change from baseline in mean arterial pressure as determined by automatic ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Secondary endpoints were changes in compliance, quality of life, and health care resource use. Ninety-one potential subjects were screened and 31 were randomized. Subjects in the patient-directed management group employed the drug adjustment protocols appropriately without complications. A significant difference in change in mean blood pressure was observed, favoring the patient-directed management (-0.95 mm Hg and +1.90 mm Hg, respectively, for patient-directed management and office-based management, P = .039). Compliance rates and quality of life scores were not significantly different between groups. Physician visits were more frequent in the patient-directed management group (1.05 v 0.20 visits/8 weeks, respectively, for patient-directed management and office-based management groups, P = .045). A patient-directed hypertensive management strategy may be feasible for patients with chronic stable hypertension. Such a strategy may improve blood pressure control compared with usual office-based care. However, physician visits may be increased using this strategy, at least in the short term.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9010695
Nebivolol is a selective beta 1-adrenergic receptor blocker possessing an ancillary vasodilating effect. The objective of the present study was to study the haemodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of nebivolol 5 mg once daily in a double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9013266
The gastrointestinal therapeutic system formulation of nifedipine enables a once-daily dosing resulting in predictable, relatively constant plasma concentrations. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of this formulation and to compare this with the beta-blocker atenolol, we conducted a double-blind, randomised, multi-centre study in 129 male patients with documented exercise induced angina pectoris. After 4 weeks' treatment, nifedipine (60 mg), improved time to onset of 0.1 mV ST-segment depression from 536 s by 72 +/- 117s, time to onset of pain from 619 s by 56 +/- 120 s, and total exercise time from 685 s by 40 +/- 88 s. Atenolol 100 mg, had a comparable effect, time to onset of 0.1 mV ST-segment depression improved from 496 s by 53 +/- 129 s, time to onset of pain from 572 s by 57 +/- 118 s, and total exercise time from 653 s by 33 +/- 99 s. Between group analysis revealed no statistically significant differences for these exercise parameters. Atenolol, but not nifedipine, significantly reduced heart rate and systolic blood pressure at rest and during exercise (P < 0.001 between groups), indicating different modes of action of the drugs. With regard to safety, both drugs were generally well tolerated. There were significantly (P = 0.01) more vasodilation related side effects with nifedipine. These data demonstrate that gastrointestinal therapeutic system formulation of nifedipine and atenolol as once-daily monotherapy are equally effective and safe, but with different effects on exercise parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9015908
The efficacy and tolerability of nisoldipine coat-core (nisoldipine CC 10, 20, 40 mg) and atenolol (50, 100 mg) were compared in 230 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. Treatment was titrated at two-weekly intervals as necessary to control blood pressure. After eight weeks of active therapy, the two treatments proved to be equally effective in reducing sitting diastolic blood pressure (13.7 +/- 8.3 mmHg and 14.2 +/- 9.1 mmHg for nisoldipine CC and atenolol, respectively), and provided equivalent reduction in systolic blood pressure and identical response rates (69%). Heart rate was reduced from baseline in the atenolol group but remained unchanged in the nisoldipine CC group (p < 0.001 difference between the two groups). Both nisoldipine CC and atenolol were well tolerated and had no detectable metabolic effects. Adverse events were minor and of the type commonly associated with drugs of these classes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9019639
Antihypertensive drug combinations have two major advantages: First, dosage of the single components can be reduced, and second, putative side effects can be minimized. Therefore, we analysed in a cohort of patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors the metabolic effects of two fixed antihypertensive drug combinations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9031766
The authors report two patients without coronary artery disease who experienced asystole during the IV infusion of dipyridamole on routine TI-201 myocardial perfusion imaging and review the literature for possible explanations of this rare side effect. Until now, this side effect was only reported in patients with coronary artery disease or beta-blocker therapy. Yet, the cases lacked both concomitant factors and autonomic dysregulation is suggested as a cause for asystole.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9033462
In patients with heart failure, beta-blocker therapy improves left-ventricular function after 3-6 months of treatment, but effects of such treatment on symptoms and exercise performance are inconsistent, and the longer-term effects on death and other serious clinical events remain uncertain. We have investigated these issues in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial of the beta-adrenergic blocker carvedilol (which also has alpha 1-blocking properties).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9038037
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of felodipine extended release (ER) 2.5 mg (F2.5) and 5 mg (F5) once daily with nifedipine Retard 10 mg (N20) and 20 mg (N40) twice daily as additional therapy in patients who remained hypertensive despite treatment with an ACE-inhibitor, beta-blocker or diuretic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9038691
To assess exercise performance and resting left ventricular filling dynamics in patients with syndrome X (SX) in basal conditions and after 10 days treatment with oral atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9039073
Problems with sexual function have been a long-standing concern in the treatment of hypertension and may influence the choice of treatment regimens and decisions to discontinue drugs. The Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study (TOMHS) provides an excellent opportunity for examination of sexual function and effects of treatment on sexual function in men and women with stage I diastolic hypertension because of the number of drug classes studied, the double-blind study design, and the long-term follow-up. TOMHS was a double-blind, randomized controlled trial of 902 hypertensive individuals (557 men, 345 women), aged 45 to 69 years, treated with placebo or one of five active drugs (acebutolol, amlodipine maleate, chlorthalidone, doxazosin maleate, or enalapril maleate). All participants received intensive lifestyle counseling regarding weight loss, dietary sodium reduction, alcohol reduction (for current drinkers), and increased physical activity. Sexual function was ascertained by physician interviews at baseline and annually during follow-up. At baseline, 14.4% of men and 4.9% of women reported a problems with sexual function. In men, 12.2% had problems obtaining and/or maintaining an erection; 2.0% of women reported a problem having an orgasm. Erection problems in men at baseline were positively related to age, systolic pressure, and previous antihypertensive drug use. The incidences of erection dysfunction during follow-up in men were 9.5% and 14.7% through 24 and 48 months, respectively, and were related to type of antihypertensive therapy. Participants randomized to chlorthalidone reported a significantly higher incidence of erection problems through 24 months than participants randomized to placebo (17.1% versus 8.1%, P = .025). Incidence rates through 48 months were more similar among treatment groups than at 24 months, with nonsignificant differences between the chlorthalidone and placebo groups. Incidence was lowest in the doxazosin group but was not significantly different from the placebo group. Incidence for acebutolol, amlodipine, and enalapril groups was similar to that in the placebo group. In many cases, erection dysfunction did not require withdrawal of medication. Disappearance of erection problems among men with problems at baseline was common in all groups but greatest in the doxazosin group. Incidence of reported sexual problems in women was low in all treatment groups. In conclusion, long-term incidence of erection problems in treated hypertensive men is relatively low but is higher with chlorthalidone treatment. Effects of erection dysfunction with chlorthalidone appear relatively early and are often tolerable, and new occurrences after 2 years are unlikely. The rate of reported sexual problems in hypertensive women is low and does not appear to differ by type of drug. Similar incidence rates of erection dysfunction in placebo and most active drug groups caution against routine attribution of erection problems to antihypertensive medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9041374
To evaluate the effect of metoprolol on insulin sensitivity and diurnal plasma hormone levels, seven mildly hypertensive subjects were investigated (four men and three women, age 52 +/- 8, body mass index 25.4 +.- 1.9, mean +/- SD). The study had a placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover design with 6 weeks' metoprolol treatment (100 mg b.i.d) vs. placebo. At the end of each treatment period 24-h blood samples were collected continuously for diurnal analysis of hormone levels and a hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic clamp combined with [3-3H]-D-glucose infusion was performed. Insulin sensitivity was evaluated by means of three different methods: diurnal plasma insulin and glucose levels; glucose consumption; and insulin sensitivity index during euglycaemic clamp conditions. Fasting blood glucose and insulin concentrations as well as mean plasma diurnal levels of insulin, growth hormone, testosterone and cortisol were similar after placebo and metoprolol treatment, whereas noradrenaline and adrenaline levels were significantly increased after metoprolol. During the clamp, plasma insulin was significantly higher after metoprolol treatment than after placebo treatment (56 +/- 3 vs. 64 +/- 2 mU L(-1), P < 0.05). Consequently, the insulin sensitivity index [glucose infusion rate (GIR)/ plasma insulin] was lower after metoprolol treatment (16.1 +/- 2.6 vs. 10.2 +/- 1.2, P < 0.05), although GIR was not significantly changed. We suggest that the insulin sensitivity index may not accurately reflect the insulin effect as the plasma level of insulin was significantly increased during insulin infusion but not at 24 h, possibly because of alteration of distribution and/or degradation rate of exogenous insulin. Thus, the likelihood of metoprolol inducing insulin resistance in hypertensive subjects may be less than previously proposed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9042095
To investigate haemostatic markers (especially fibrinolysis), inflammatory parameters and lipids in patients with stable angina pectoris. Special attention was paid to differences between male and female patients, and to the reactivity to exercise or the diurnal variation of certain parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9042847
To review the scientific evidence concerning the safety and efficacy of various antihypertensive therapies used as first-line agents and evaluated in terms of major disease end points.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9043840
Anti-ischaemic therapy with nitrates and/or calcium channel blockers profoundly affects the results of pharmacological stress echocardiography with coronary vasodilators but the influence on catecholamine stress testing remains unsettled.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9046949
Congestive heart failure is a major public health problem in Western countries. Despite current treatment including angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, mortality and morbidity remain high. The sympathetic nervous system is markedly activated in heart failure, and inhibition of this system with the beta-adrenergic blocking agents may provide further benefit. Several clinical trials involving over 3,000 patients have shown that beta-blocker therapy improves left ventricular function in patients with heart failure. However, the effects of such therapy on symptoms and exercise tolerance have been variable. Recent reports have suggested that survival is improved with the beta-blocker carvedilol. Large-scale, long-term clinical trials are required to confirm these findings and to clearly define the role of this promising therapy for patients with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9048267
Statistics regarding long-term survival for patients with heart failure are discouraging today. Converting enzyme inhibitors have produced a modest effect on mortality. beta-Blockers may be the next addition to standard therapy for heart failure because they generate consistent improvements in hemodynamic factors, symptom scores, and submaximal exercise tolerance in randomized, controlled clinical trials. They augment ejection fraction, reduce heart volume, and consistently lower neurohormonal activation as reflected by plasma norepinephrine levels. Trials with carvedilol and bisoprolol suggest an effect on mortality similar to that with converting enzyme inhibitor trials. Future studies, especially the beta-blocker Evaluation Survival Trial (BEST), with mortality as the main end point should elucidate the degree of effect on mortality further.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9048789
Previous studies have been interpreted as suggesting an increase in risk of cancer among users of calcium-channel blockers compared with users of beta-blockers. To explore this issue further, we studied a large group of hypertensive patients to investigate the relation of calcium-channel blockers and cancer.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9049571
A major limitation of dietary trials is that double blind design is not feasible. These trials are therefore prone to biases. The Lyon diet heart study is a single-blind secondary prevention trial to test the hypothesis that a Mediterranean-type of diet may prevent recurrences after a first myocardial infarction. A surprising 73% reduction of the risk of new major cardiac events was observed in the experimental group. For this reason, it is important to describe the methods used in the trial. We now report our techniques to randomize the patients, to change their diet and to control for possible bias, in particular any investigator or attending physician bias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9050975
To compare the effects of fixed-dose preparations containing 180 mg sustained-release verapamil and 2 mg trandolapril, 100/25 mg atenolol/chlorthalidone, 20/12.5 mg lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide and placebo in patients with essential hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9052890
beta-Blockers are known to slow the progression of diabetic nephropathy by lowering arterial pressure. Moreover, in individuals with diabetic nephropathy, antihypertensive agents that provide sustained reductions in proteinuria slow the rate of decline in renal function compared with agents without this antiproteinuric effect. To examine whether differential effects on proteinuria affect the progression of diabetic nephropathy, we conducted a randomized study that compared the effects of a heart rate-lowering calcium channel blocker, sustained-release verapamil, with those of a beta-blocker, atenolol, on the progression of diabetic renal disease. The primary end point of the study was a change in creatinine clearance slope. Thirty-four African Americans with the following inclusion criteria were randomized to one of the two groups: serum creatinine greater than 1.4 mg/dL, proteinuria greater than 1500 mg/d, longer than a 5-year history of both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and hypertension, and exclusion of other renal diseases. Goal blood pressure was less than 140/90 mm Hg. All subjects received loop diuretics as second line agents to help achieve the blood pressure goal. Twenty-four-hour urinary protein and sodium excretions as well as creatinine clearance were measured at 6-month intervals. Blood pressure was measured every 3 months. After a mean follow-up of 54+/-6 months, the calcium channel blocker group demonstrated both a slower rate of decline in creatinine clearance (-1.7+/-0.9 versus -3.7+/-1.4 mL/min per year per 1.73 m2, P<.01) and a greater reduction in proteinuria compared with the atenolol group. Additionally, a greater proportion of the atenolol group had a 50% or more increase in serum creatinine compared with the verapamil group (32+/-9% versus 16+/-7%, P<.05). These between-group differences could not be explained by differences in blood pressure control. These data support the concept that antihypertensive agents that persistently maintain reductions in both arterial pressure and proteinuria slow the progression of diabetic renal disease in African Americans to a greater extent than those agents without these effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9053382
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9054853
Mitral flow velocity patterns (MFVPs) evaluated by Doppler echocardiography are strong predictors of survival in various cardiac diseases. However, MFVPs may change over time according to loading conditions. We performed this prospective study to assess whether changes in MFVP induced by loading manipulations provided additional prognostic information in 173 patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9057069
It has been reported that endothelin-1 (ET-1) increases in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Experimental studies showed that captopril administration reduces ET-1 secretion. In addition, it was reported that the increased ET-1 levels are a negative prognostic index. The study sought to verify whether captopril can reduce plasma ET levels in the acute and subacute phases of reperfused anterior AMI. Forty-five patients, hospitalized for suspected anterior AMI within 4 h from the onset of symptoms, suitable for thrombolysis (first episode), Killip class I-2, were randomized (double blind) into two groups: group A (23; seven women/16 men) received captopril (as first dose) 2-4 h after starting thrombolysis (the dose was then increased up to 25 mg every 8 h). Group B (22; five women/17 men) received placebo after thrombolysis. All the patients met the reperfusion criteria. The two groups were similar with regard to age, sex, CK peak, ejection fraction, end-systolic volume and risk factors. Plasma ET levels were measured at entry, and 2, 12, 24, 48, and 72 h after starting thrombolysis. Mean concentrations of ET +/- SD: Group A basal, 1.50 +/- 0.67; at 2h, 2.31 +/- 1.24; 12 h, 1.84 +/- 1.45; 24 h, 1.30 +/- 0.72; 48 h, o.95 +/- 0.50; 72 h, 0.60 +/- 0.15 fmol/ml; p < 0.001. Group B basal, 1.58 +/- 0.83; at 2 h, 2.38 +/- 1.35; 12 h, 2.33 +/- 1.71; 24 h, 1.80 +/- 1.41; 48h, 1.46 +/- 0.88; 72 h, 0.93 +/- 0.44 fmol/ml; p < 0.001. Difference between the two groups was significant at the beginning of the test (between 2 and 12 h, p[=]0.002). After that, the values of the plasma endothelin decreased in parallel, p < 0.001. Our data suggest that captopril affects plasma ET levels in the acute and subacute phases of AMI. Moreover, these results provide additional evidence for a beneficial effect of early captopril treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9057730
Short-acting calcium antagonists may increase coronary artery morbidity, mortality, and non-cardiovascular complications in hypertensive patients. We assessed whether this association was also true for long-acting calcium antagonists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9067912
In long-term intervention studies on renal function outcome an initial decline in the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) may occur after starting therapy. If this initial GFR decline is the result of a treatment-induced hemodynamic change reflecting a fall in intraglomerular pressure, it should be reversible after treatment withdrawal, even after long-term treatment. In fact, it could be beneficial for renal function in the long term. We therefore studied systemic and renal hemodynamics in 40 non-diabetic patients with impaired renal function before treatment, during four years treatment with either atenolol or enalapril, and after withdrawal of that treatment. The acute change in GFR 12 weeks after start of treatment varied widely from -11 to + 11 ml/min (mean +/- SD -1.0 +/- 4.1 ml/min, NS). After four years of treatment, withdrawal for 12 weeks resulted in a rise in GFR of +2.2 +/- 5.4 ml/min, P = 0.011, again with a wide range of +14 to -6 ml/min). The initial fall in GFR was related to the rise after withdrawal (r = 0.32, P < 0.05). Interestingly, the acute treatment induced change in GFR correlated with the long-term slope, such that a patient with a greater initial decline in GFR showed a more stable course during the follow up (r = -0.36, P < 0.05). The patients were arbitrarily divided in group A (N = 20), with the largest initial treatment-induced fall in GFR, and group B (N = 20), with the smallest initial fall in GFR. Group A had a significantly less steep slope than group B (-0.41 +/- 1.52 vs. -2.09 +/- 2.79 ml/min/year, P = 0.023) during the four year follow-up. In group A GFR increased again after withdrawal of treatment (+3.8 +/- 5.6 ml/min, P = 0.011) whereas it did not change in group B (+0.5 +/- 4.0 ml/min, NS). As a consequence, GFR post-treatment was not different compared to pre-treatment in group A (-2.5 +/- 7.2 ml/min, NS), whereas it was 5.9 +/- 12.1 ml/min lower in group B (P = 0.023). Patients treated with enalapril had a similar response as patients treated with atenolol. In conclusion, an initial fall in GFR after starting antihypertensive treatment in patients with a mild to moderate renal function impairment (GFR 30 to 90 ml/min) is reversible even after years of treatment, suggesting that this therapy-induced fall is of hemodynamic and not of structural origin. This initial GFR fall was associated with a subsequent stable renal function. These data lead to the hypothesis that the initial fall in GFR in response to antihypertensive therapy reflects renal protection.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9068264
The effect of 6 months' administration of celiprolol, atenolol and isosorbide dinitrate on peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD), double-blind and placebo-controlled, was investigated in 56 patients with chronic ischaemic heart disease and stage IIb PAOD, using as criteria the walking distance and the change in resistance index in the femoral artery. The placebo group consisted of 14 patients with chronic ischaemic heart disease and the same stage of PAOD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9071195
In previous studies, using laser Doppler techniques, the authors have demonstrated a duration-dependent reduction in skin blood flow reserve at sites of nutritive (NUTR) perfusion that occurs in diabetes and correlates with the presence of diabetic retinopathy and proteinuria. They speculated that it might be possible to reverse this decrease in blood flow by using agents with peripheral vasodilating properties. They chose the calcium channel blocking agent isradipine as a prototype. As a contrast agent, they chose atenolol, which has an equivalent antihypertensive effect but minimal peripheral vasodilating properties. They studied 24 diabetic hypertensive patients in a randomized, two-way crossover design. They assigned patients randomly to one or the other active drug and titrated to a maximum tolerated maintenance dose. Skin blood flow was measured at the end of the titration and maintenance phases. Patients then entered a four-week washout period, followed by crossover to the alternative drug, and measurements were repeated. At baseline, the twenty-four-hour mean ambulatory systolic blood pressure was 150 +/- 2 mm Hg with a twenty-four-hour mean diastolic blood pressure of 93 +/- 1 mm Hg. Thermally stimulated skin blood flow reserve was about 50% lower in these patients as compared with an age-, sex-, and weight-matched group of 28 nondiabetic, nonhypertensive patients. There was no difference in skin blood flow between the two groups at basal skin temperature or at a controlled temperature of 35 degrees C. Both atenolol and isradipine successfully lowered blood pressure in the study patients. There was a slightly greater decrease in systolic blood pressure with isradipine and a greater decrease in heart rate with atenolol. Neither isradipine nor atenolol treatment affected skin blood flow values at the maximal 44 degrees C temperature. However, at basal skin temperature and at 35 degrees C, isradipine-treated patients had substantial increases in skin blood flow at NUTR sites. For example, skin blood flow at the knee at 35 degrees C with isradipine treatment was 3.1 +/- 0.4 mL/min/100 g compared with 1.1 +/- 0.2 with atenolol, 1.3 +/- 0.1 with placebo, and 0.9 +/- 0.1 for the nondiabetic controls (all P < 0.01). The authors found a twofold to threefold increase in basal skin blood flow at NUTR sites with isradipine treatment. This degree of increase is substantially greater than that previously demonstrated by their group using pentoxifylline. Locally reduced skin blood flow is a factor in promoting skin breakdown and delayed healing. Further study is needed to explore the possibility that isradipine treatment may enhance healing of diabetic skin ulcers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9080239
We studied the use of esmolol in patients experiencing minor side effects of palpitations, anxiety, nervousness, and tremors associated with dobutamine stress echocardiography.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9080918
To compare 5 antihypertensive drugs and placebo for changes in quality of life (QL). To assess the relationship of lifestyle factors and change in lifestyle factors to QL in participants with stage I diastolic hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9082680
Beta-blocking agents are well established in the treatment of patients with coronary artery disease. Synergistic effects on mortality, myocardial ischemia, the risk for myocardial (re-)infarction and, as most recently shown, on sudden cardiac death form the basis for the convincing prognostic impact of these agents. The present paper is directed to summarize the clinical evidence for the therapeutic benefit of beta-blocking agents in post-infarction patients, to characterize subgroups of patients who will benefit most from such a therapeutic intervention and to discuss the present impact of newer beta-blocking agents, such as carvedilol which beside its effects on beta-1 and beta-2 receptors exerts potent vasodilating properties via an alpha-1 receptor blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9088769
This prospective hospital-based, case-control study compares the outcome of unstable angina in non-insulin dependent diabetic patients and non-diabetic control subjects. One hundred and sixty-two diabetic patients and 162 non-diabetic control patients with unstable angina were entered into the study. The 3-month mortality was 8.6% (95% confidence interval, CI = 4.4-12.9%) in diabetic patients and 2.5% (CI = 0.1-4.9%) in control patients (p = 0.014). The 1-year mortality was 16.7% (CI = 10.9%-22.4%) in diabetic patients and 8.6% (CI = 4.4%-12.9%) in non-diabetic patients (p = 0.029). Diabetic patients received beta-blockade and underwent coronary angiography and angioplasty less frequently than controls; the frequency of unstable angina, of acute myocardial infarction, and coronary artery bypass grafting was similar in both groups at 1 year of follow-up. It is concluded that diabetic patients with unstable angina have a higher mortality than non-diabetic patients and that this difference is largely accounted for by early (first 3 months) mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9088811
A study was conducted on 100 middle-aged to elderly patients (n = 52, healthy; n = 48, suffering from either diabetes, hypertension, ischaemic heart disease or a combination of these diseases) undergoing cataract extraction to assess the effects of laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation, anaesthesia and surgery, eye bandaging and tracheal extubation, saline (control), magnesium sulphate 40 mg kg-1, esmolol 4.0 mg kg-1, lignocaine 1.5 mg kg-1 and glyceryl trinitrate 7.5 micrograms kg-1 given i.v. at induction of anaesthesia on heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), rate-pressure product (RPP) and pressure-rate quotient (PRQ). Anaesthesia was standardized. Haemodynamic responses and requirements for atropine, ephedrine and labetalol to maintain HR and BP during surgery were similar in healthy and diseased patients, and in the test drug groups. Differences produced by the test drugs were evident until 5 min following intubation. Esmolol prevented rises in HR and RPP. Glyceryl trinitrate prevented a rise in BP, but was associated with tachycardia and a fall in PRQ to < 1.0. Magnesium sulphate and lignocaine did not prevent responses to laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation, and were associated with rises in RPP. Application of the eye dressing and tracheal extubation at the end of surgery each caused significant increases in HR, BP and RPP in all groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9098273
To compare the effect on intraocular pressure (IOP) and side effects of 0.005% latanoprost applied once daily, morning or evening, with 0.5% timolol applied twice daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9104896
The objective of this study was to examine whether there are international variations in the use of evidence-based medical therapy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary revascularization. We analyzed the medical therapy of patients in the United States (US) (n = 878), Europe (n = 134), and Canada (n = 274) who underwent percutaneous coronary revascularization in either the Coronary Angioplasty Versus Excisional Atherectomy Trial (CAVEAT-I) (enrollment from August 1991 to April 1992) or the Canadian Coronary Atherectomy Trial (CCAT) (enrollment from July 1991 to August 1992). We found that at the time of hospital admission, Canadian patients had the highest rates of treatment with aspirin (95% vs 57% US and 78% Europe; p = 0.002), calcium antagonists (75% vs 48% US and 43% Europe; p 0.0001), beta blockers (60% vs 32% US and 46% Europe; p = 0.02), and combination anti-ischemic therapy (67% vs 43% US and 56% Europe; p = 0.0001). By discharge, however, Canadian patients had the lowest rates of treatment with nitrates (12% vs 40% US and 44% Europe; p = 0.0001) and combination anti-ischemic therapy (29% vs 53% US and 47% Europe; p < 0.01). At both admission and discharge, rates of treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and lipid-lowering agents were < 15% in all 3 regions. We conclude that significant international variations exist in the use of evidence-based medical therapy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9104905
Data from epidemiologic, autopsy, Holter monitoring, and electrophysiologic studies support the hypothesis that acute myocardial ischemia, even in the absence of myocardial infarction, is a critical component of the pathophysiology of sudden coronary death. Acute myocardial ischemia superimposed upon ventricles damaged from previous infarctions has been demonstrated to enhance the generation of lethal ventricular arrhythmias. This is a retrospective analysis of 6,797 participants in the Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction prevention and treatment trials. Both univariate and multivariate Cox proportional-hazards modeling were used to study the association of anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy with the risk for sudden cardiac death. The following covariates were adjusted for in the analysis: age, ejection fraction, gender, atrial fibrillation, diabetes, a history of angina, prior infarction, prior revascularization, and the regular use of beta blockers, diuretics, digoxin, antiarrhythmic agents, or enalapril. The overall incidence of sudden cardiac death per 100 patient-years of follow-up was 2.24%. In multivariate analysis, antiplatelet and anticoagulant monotherapy each remained independently associated with a reduction in the risk of sudden cardiac death: antiplatelet therapy with a 24% reduction (relative risk [RR] 0.76; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.61-0.95) and antiplatelet monotherapy with a 32% reduction (RR 0.68; 95% CI 0.48-0.96). Thus, in patients with moderate to severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction resulting from coronary artery disease, antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy are each associated with a reduction in the risk of sudden cardiac death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9105649
Research into the exact mechanism and site of action of ACE inhibiting compounds has been hampered by methodological difficulties concerning the quantitation of ACE inhibition in tissues. This paper describes an attempt to address this difficulty. ACE activity in serum and uncentrifuged skeletal muscle homogenates was measured with a fluorometric assay before and during treatment in 24 fosinopril-treated and 26 atenolol-treated hypertensives. The absolute difference in activity between the higher and the lower of two different sample dilutions divided by the mean activity was taken to represent competitive inhibition in the sample, "inhibitor index". The reduction in muscle ACE activity coinciding with fosinopril treatment was not statistically significant (-2.6%, p = 0.68). The inhibitor index, however, increased by 46% (p = 0.045) and no change was seen in the atenolol-treated group (-12%, p = 0.51). The change in muscle inhibitor index (but not the reduction in serum ACE activity) correlated inversely with the change in blood pressure (r = -0.50, p = 0.034) and serum aldosterone (r = -0.54, p = 0.031) in the fosinopril group, but not in the atenolol group. In a second study, serum inhibitor index increased by 0.28 (95% CI 0.24-0.32) in 12 trandolapril-treated, but was unchanged in 11 atenolol-treated patients (+0.0097, 95% CI -0.029-0.048). In conclusion, the present study indicates that the inhibitor index described recognizes physiologically relevant ACE inhibition. The value of the method needs to be investigated further.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9107160
Long-term beta-adrenergic blockade does not appear to be associated with drug-induced training in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF); whether exercise training can increase peak aerobic capacity in patients with CHF who are treated with beta-adrenergic blockers is currently unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9107241
The transjugular-intrahepatic-portosystemic shunt is a new interventional treatment for portal hypertension. The aim of our study was to compare the transjugular shunt with endoscopic treatment for the prophylaxis of recurrent variceal bleeding.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9107560
Clinical research in chronic heart failure has recently focused on the stimulated neuro-hormonal compensatory mechanisms that could contribute to auto-aggravation of the disease. On the basis of such a hypothesis, and apart from the inhibition of the renin angiotensin system, the antagonism of beta-receptors has evolved as a promising approach for improving quality of life and prognosis. However, the definite proof of beta-adrenoceptor blockade induced benefit on survival remains to be demonstrated. On the basis of CIBIS I data, the objective of the Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study II (CIBIS II) is to evaluate effects of the selective beta-1 adrenoceptor blocker, bisoprolol, on mortality (primary endpoint) in patients with ischaemic or non-ischaemic chronic heart failure. Eligible patients will be symptomatic ambulatory patients with left ventricular ejection fraction < or = 35% in NYHA functional class III or IV, receiving a background treatment of diuretics and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. A total of 2,500 patients are planned to be included with a mean follow up of at least 3 years. Secondary endpoints include hospitalisations, cardiovascular mortality and combination of both as well as permanent treatment withdrawal. Bisoprolol will be titrated up to 10 mg, starting with 1.25 mg daily. Randomization began in November 1995. CIBIS II results will represent a basis for definite conclusions on the evaluation of beta-adrenoceptor blockade induced benefit with bisoprolol in chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9113491
The cornerstones of current antihypertensive treatment are diuretics and beta-blockers and the efficacy of these drugs in preventing cardiovascular disease is undisputed. This article focuses on the effect of these 2 drug classes on the incidence of sudden death. Numerous studies have shown that thiazide diuretics have a strong, dosage-dependent potassium-depleting effect, and it has been postulated that this may explain why the reduction in risk of coronary heart disease, observed in hypertension trials, was less pronounced than expected. In 7 trials that included sudden death as an end-point; a pooled risk-ratio of sudden death of 1.5 (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 2.0) was observed when non-potassium-sparing diuretics were compared with placebo. Two recent case-control studies have also strongly indicated that the use of thiazides increases the risk of sudden death. Evidence from trials using potassium-sparing diuretic combinations suggests that these may be better tolerated than thiazide monotherapy. Although it was suggested in the 2 recent case-control studies that recipients of beta-blockers are also at an increased risk of sudden death, further studies are required to confirm this finding, particularly since these drugs have several well-documented cardioprotective effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9114765
An ideal drug regimen for physically active hypertensive patients should not offset exercise-induced improvements in cardiovascular health or fitness. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of 39 physically active men with uncomplicated essential hypertension, we compared the effects of atenolol and enalapril on cardiovascular fitness and serum lipids. Drugs (atenolol, 50 or 100 mg once daily; enalapril, 10 or 20 mg once daily) were each administered for 4 weeks and each active drug period was preceded by 4 weeks of placebo therapy. Both drugs effectively (p < 0.001) lowered resting blood pressure when measured at the time of theoretical peak (i.e., 3 to 4 hours postdrug) and trough (i.e., 24 hours postdrug) drug blood levels. Atenolol reduced maximal oxygen uptake (by 7.3%, p < 0.001) 3 to 4, but not 24, hours after drug ingestion; no changes occurred with enalapril. Similarly, whereas serum lipids were essentially unchanged with enalapril, serum triglycerides (18.9% increase), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (10.6% decrease), and ratio of low-density to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (15.4% increase) were adversely impacted (p < or = 0.05) with atenolol. It is concluded that in contrast to enalapril, atenolol adversely impacts cardiovascular fitness and serum lipids and lipoproteins in physically active hypertensive men.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9114777
In this study, a beta-adrenergic blocker in combination with digoxin provided marginal protection against atrial fibrillation/flutter after coronary artery surgery. The economic comparison of patients who did and did not develop atrial fibrillation/flutter indicates that prevention of these arrhythmias can have a significant impact on length of hospital stay and cost of this common surgical procedure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9120160
The aim of this study, a substudy of the Australia-New Zealand trial of carvedilol in patients with heart failure due to ischemic heart disease, was to determine the effects of this treatment on left ventricular size and function with the use of quantitative two-dimensional (2D) echocardiography.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9129845
We studied the ability to predict depressed left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) from clinical and exercise test findings prior to surgery in consecutive patients who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) from 1988 to 1991 (n = 663). Multivariate analysis showed a history of myocardial infarction, pathological Q-wave in resting ECG, systolic blood pressure at maximal exercise and the degree of mitral regurgitation as significant independent predictors of impaired LVEF. The relative risk (RR) of depressed LVEF was markedly increased for a previous history of myocardial infarction (RR 3.3, p < 0.0001) and a pathological Q-wave in resting ECG (RR 2.4, p < 0.0001). All associations found between depressed LVEF and exercise test results were poor, and of little value for discriminating patients with depressed LVEF. Thus, clinical data appear to be better markers of low LVEF than the information obtained from the exercise test.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9129883
Several randomized trials have reported that beta-blocker therapy improves left ventricular function and reduces the rate of hospitalization in patients with congestive heart failure. However, most trials were individually too small to assess reliably the effects of treatment on mortality. In these circumstances a systematic overview of all trials of beta-blocker therapy in patients with congestive heart failure may provide the most reliable guide to treatment effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9133121
To evaluate a possible common pathogenetic denominator, we compared hemodynamic data of 18 patients who had an uneventful long-term course after a Fontan procedure, with the respective data of patients who developed symptoms of central venous congestion either in the immediate postoperative period (n = 10) or during late follow-up (n = 6). We found a coincidence of increased early postoperative venous pressures (CVP; 17.1 +/- 2.9 mm Hg) with relatively high cardiac indices (3.6 +/- 0.6 l/min.m-2) as compared to 2.4 l/min.m-2 in the group of patients with a symptom-free long-term course but no significant difference in total pulmonary resistance between the two groups. The increased CVP (17.2 +/- 2.9 mm Hg) in patients with late chronic central venous congestion is primarily due to increased total pulmonary resistance (552 +/- 131 dyn s/cm5.m-2). Both groups of patients with central venous congestion display a ratio of systemic to total pulmonary resistance lower than 4.5 whereas symptom-free patients have a significantly higher resistance ratio (6.8 +/- 2.3) and a highly significant increase in peripheral resistance to values of 2687 +/- 527 dyn s/cm5.m-2 as compared to 1486 +/- 340 dyn s/cm5.m-2 in the early postoperative group. Correspondingly, mean arterial pressure of the symptom-free patients is significantly elevated (93 +/- 11 mm Hg) as compared to a control group (81 +/- 11 mm Hg). Based on our theory an increase in systemic arterial resistance may lead to a fall in mean capillary filtration pressure and therefore counteract central venous congestion. To support this, we briefly present cases where pharmacologic enhancement of systemic arterial resistance was effective in the treatment of venous congestion whereas pharmacologic lowering of systemic resistance induced venous congestion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9133504
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9133508
Antihypertensive drugs may differ in their ability to reduce LV mass. Covariates other than drug selection, such as pretreatment LV mass, body weight, the magnitude of blood pressure reduction, race, and age may modify the response of LV mass to therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9137841
In order to understand the pattern of utilization of migraine prophylactic drugs by US physicians, we reviewed the scientific rigor of published trials of anti-migraine medications, assessed their cost, and tested the correlation, if any, between utilization, scientific rigor and cost.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9140801
Combination therapy with the new ACE inhibitor moexipril plus hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) results in significant blood pressure (BP) reductions. This study compares the efficacy and safety of moexipril plus HCTZ to that of a standard combination treatment in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. After a 1 month placebo run-in period, 140 hypertensive patients whose sitting diastolic BP (DBP) averaged 95-114 mm Hg were randomized to receive either once daily moexipril 7.5 mg/HCTZ 12.5 mg or metoprolol 100 mg/HCTZ 12.5 mg for the following 12-week double-blind treatment period. At biweekly visits BP was controlled sphygmomanometrically and the occurrence of adverse events (AE) was documented. At study endpoint adjusted mean reductions in sitting systolic/diastolic BP seen with both combinations were -17.6 mm Hg/-12.8 mm Hg and -17.2 mm Hg/-13.9 mm Hg in the moexipril/HCTZ and metoprolol/HCTZ groups, respectively. The response rate to both kinds of combinations were very similar, 69% and 74% in the moexipril/HCTZ and metoprolol/HCTZ groups, respectively. The percentage of patients which experienced one or more AEs were 46% in the moexipril/HCTZ and 61% in the metoprolol/HCTZ group. Headache and cough which are the most frequently reported AEs after treatment with ACE inhibitors were seen in 9% and 10% of the patients in the moexipril/HCTZ group compared to 10% and 4% in the metoprolol/HCTZ group. The study indicates that the combination of moexipril 7.5 mg plus HCTZ 12.5 mg is as efficacious and safe as metoprolol 100 mg plus HCTZ 12.5 mg in the treatment of mild-to-moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9141231
Several trials have demonstrated functional benefit with beta-blockers in patients with chronic heart failure. The aim of this observational study was to investigate if additional beneficial effects can be obtained from beta-blockade in a heart failure population that is already receiving high-dose ACE-inhibitor therapy. Atenolol is a long-acting cardioselective beta-blocking agent and is devoid of additional vasodilatory properties. Twenty-five male patients with class II or III heart failure and background therapy of digitalis, furosemide and 20 mg fosinopril per day were treated with 40 mg fosinopril per day and additional 75 mg atenolol per day (beta-blocker group) or with 40 mg fosinopril per day alone (control group). At the end of one year, changes in left ventricular function, exercise parameters and plasma neurohumoral variables reflecting vasoconstriction (noradrenaline, big endothelin) were measured and compared in the two treatment groups. Nineteen patients completed the study. Drop-outs were due to death (4 patients) and non-compliance (2 patients) with no significant difference between the groups. There was a beta-blocker related improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction (p < 0.05 between groups) and an increase in peak oxygen consumption in the control group only (p < 0.05 between groups). Thus, in a heart failure population receiving high-dose ACE inhibitor background therapy beta-blockade with atenolol produced additional benefit by reversing left ventricular dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9143861
Fifty-six patients with essential hypertension were recruited to study the metabolic effects of carvedilol, a non-selective beta-adrenoceptor-blocker with alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocking properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9148648
Trials of drug therapy for hypertension have shown that such therapy has a clear overall benefit in preventing cardiovascular disease. Although these trials have included slightly more women than men, it is still not clear whether treatment benefit is similar for both sexes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9159306
The African-American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension pilot study randomized 94 nondiabetic black men and women (mean age, 53 years; 75% male) with presumed hypertensive nephrosclerosis and a baseline glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of 25 to 70 mL/min/1.73 m2 (mean, 52.3 mL/min/1.73 m2) to blood pressure control at either a low mean arterial pressure (MAP) goal of < or = 92 mm Hg or a usual MAP goal of 102 to 107 mm Hg and an antihypertensive drug regimen that included either a calcium antagonist (amlodipine), a beta-blocker (atenolol), or an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (enalapril). After 3 months of follow-up (n = 90), the mean GFR was similar (53.0 mL/min/1.73 m2 v 53.7 mL/min/1.73 m2) to the baseline levels in participants randomized to the low MAP group (n = 44), whereas the mean GFR increased by 3.9 mL/min/1.73 m2 (P = 0.02) in participants randomized to the usual MAP group (n = 46). During the same period of time, the mean GFR increased significantly in participants randomized to the calcium channel blocker regimen (n = 28) (5.7 mL/min/ 1.73 m2; P = 0.01) but not in participants randomized to the beta-blocker regimen (n = 31) (1.7 mL/min/1.73 m2; P = 0.10) or the ACE inhibitor regimen (n = 31) (1.1 mL/min/1.73 m2; P = 0.52). Changes in GFR at 3 months were significantly different among the three treatment groups (P = 0.04). We conclude that the magnitude of short-term effects of blood pressure control and antihypertensive drug regimens on GFR should be considered when estimating sample size for clinical trials designed to evaluate the effects of these interventions on long-term changes in GFR slope.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9163999
In this review, the design and objectives of ongoing clinical trials in essential hypertension are discussed along with the main results obtained from previously published therapeutic trials. In a meta-analysis of 14 of the major primary prevention trials in hypertension, the difference in diastolic blood pressure between the intervention groups and the control groups was only 5-6 mmHg. This difference was associated with significant reductions in all stroke events (42 per cent), all coronary heart disease events (14 per cent) and in cardiovascular mortality (21 per cent). In elderly hypertensive patients, available studies have shown that antihypertensive treatment reduces the incidence of non-fatal cardiovascular events without significantly modifying cardiovascular mortality. Most of these results were obtained with beta-blockers or diuretics. Despite official recommendation as first line monotherapy, none of the three new antihypertensive classes has been shown to have beneficial effects on hard primary endpoints such as cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Several ongoing large scale randomized controlled trials vs. beta-blockers or diuretics are addressing this important issue. Moreover, other effects of antihypertensive treatment such as the 'J-curve phenomenon', the rate of change in the carotid wall thickness or the exact beneficial effects in elderly patients are being investigated in some of these studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9164696
Published medical evidence pertaining to the management of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) was critically reviewed in order to prepare practice guidelines for this condition. SAH should be considered as a possible cause of all sudden and/or unusual headaches, and every attempt should be made to recognize mild SAHs, as they are still frequently misdiagnosed. The first test for SAH is computed tomography (CT), followed by lumbar puncture when the CT is negative for intracranial bleeding (the case in only several per cent of patients within 24 hours of aneurysm bleeding). Urgent cerebral angiography is necessary to detect the underlying cerebral aneurysm. The advantage of rapid diagnosis of SAH followed by early aneurysm repair is minimizing the risk of catastrophic aneurysm rebleeding. Early surgery for aneurysm repair is often possible and is recommended, unless the aneurysm location or size renders it technically difficult to expose in clot-laden subarachnoid cisterns beneath an acutely swollen brain. Aneurysm ablation is optimally accomplished with open microsurgery and clipping of the aneurysm neck, although other options include proximal parent artery occlusion, "trapping" of the aneurysmal segment of the artery, and embolization of thrombogenic materials (e.g., platinum "microcoils") directly into the aneurysm dome using endovascular techniques. Neurological outcome following SAH is also optimized through the prevention of secondary SAH complications, and further management specific for ruptured cerebral aneurysms can include anticonvulsants, neuroprotectants, and various agents and techniques to prevent or reverse delayed-onset cerebral vasospasm. All patients with aneurysmal SAH should be treated with the calcium antagonist nimodipine, and in certain circumstances patients should receive anticonvulsants. Induced arterial hypertension, hypervolemia and in some instances percutaneous balloon angioplasty are recommended to reverse vasospasm causing symptomatic cerebral ischemia prior to cerebral infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9165181
To investigate the possible harmful effects of early antihypertensive drug therapy with atenolol versus other therapies on pregnancy outcome, we reviewed the records of 398 women referred to our antenatal hypertension clinic between 1980 and 1995. Babies born to women taking atenolol were significantly lighter than babies born to women taking other beta blockers, other antihypertensive drugs, or no therapy, suggesting that atenolol might be detrimental in early pregnancy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9168080
Atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter (AF) frequently complicate coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) and increase hospital stay as well as morbidity. Studies of drug prophylaxis to prevent AF with beta-adrenergic blocking agents administered in fixed doses have had conflicting results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9169997
Angiotensin II (Ang II) levels are normally very low in human plasma, approximately 5 pg/ml. They are usually measured by radioimmunoassay after extraction and concentration. An additional high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) step is reportedly necessary for accurate measurement but it is laborious and time-consuming, severely limiting the number of samples that can be assayed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9170400
Disturbed fibrinolytic function may influence the progression of coronary atherosclerosis and contribute to thrombotic cardiovascular (CV) events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9174677
In a multicentre, double-blind, parallel group study, the anti-anginal and the anti-ischaemic efficacy of 12 weeks of therapy with the vasodilating beta-adrenoceptor-blocker carvedilol 25 mg b.i.d. was compared with verapamil 120 mg t.i.d.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9175566
Attainment of the regression of hypertension-associated left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) seems to be a desirable goal of blood pressure (BP)-reducing therapy. Since antihypertensive drugs of differing types may exhibit markedly different abilities to modulate LVH, we examined the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor cilazapril, and the potassium channel activator minoxidil, alone or in combination with each other, on the left ventricular mass (LVM) in patients with severe essential hypertension who had LVH detected by echocardiography. All patients received the same base therapy of bopindolol and guanfacine. After a run-in period, they were treated with: (1) cilazapril (n = 10); (2) minoxidil, combined with a diuretic (n = 10); or (3) both cilazapril and monoxidil (n = 6) for 12 months. The LVM index (LVMI; LVM per body surface area) was estimated every 3 months by means of echocardiography. Each kind of therapy decreased the arterial pressures to a similar degree. The 1-year treatment with the cilazapril-based regimen resulted in a significantly diminished LVMI (from a mean +/- s.d. of 173 +/- 38 to 152 +/- 22 g/m2; P < 0.05). On the other hand, the minoxidil-based therapy led to a significant increase in LVMI (from 148 +/- 19 to 170 +/- 35 g/m2; P < 0.05). There were no significant LVMI changes in patients receiving the combined, cilazapril + minoxidil-based treatment (172 +/- 34 vs the pretreatment 183 +/- 54 g/m2). The results confirm that long-term treatment with cilazapril is effective both in reducing BP and in reducing LVM. In spite of yielding a satisfactory reduction of BP, minoxidil therapy, even in combination with a diuretic and a beta-blocker, may lead to an aggravation of pre-existing LVH; this effect of minoxidil could be prevented by the simultaneous administration of cilazapril.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9181278
The prevalence and natural history of severe proteinuria in mild to moderate hypertension are not completely defined. We screened 1635 men with a history of hypertension and randomized 1292 with untreated diastolic blood pressure (DBP) 95-109 mmHg to single-drug treatment with either hydrochlorothiazide, atenolol, captopril, clonidine, diltiazem-SR, prazosin, or placebo in a double-blind prospective trial. Twenty-seven of 1635 patients (1.7%) satisfying clinical criteria for primary hypertension were found to have developed proteinuria > 1000 mg/24 hours and were removed from the study. Follow-up data were obtained on 19 of these 27 patients. One patient was found to have focal segmental sclerosis and progressed to end-stage renal disease. Three other patients developed severe (serum creatinine > 3.5 mg/dl) chronic renal failure (one with diabetic nephropathy), one progressed from serum creatinine 1.4 to 2.2 mg/dl, but 14 of the 19 remained with stable serum creatinine < 2.0 mg/dl on follow-up for 6-9 years. Data were available for 1076 of 1155 (93%) treated study patients at end titration, 522/600 (87%) at one year and 322/444 (73%) at two years. There were significant associations for proteinuria with obesity and higher systolic blood pressure. There was a trend toward significant difference in mean 24-hour protein excretion rates at baseline between black (127 mg) and white (139 mg) patients (p = 0.07). There were no statistically significant changes in urinary protein excretion/24 hours between or within the different treatment groups (including placebo). Eighteen patients were removed from the study during the active treatment phase for proteinuria > 1000 mg/24 hours: hydrochlorothiazide 4, placebo 3, diltiazem 3, prazosin 3, atenolol 2, clonidine 2, and captopril 1. We conclude: (1) the prevalence of severe (> 1 g/24 hours) proteinuria in the hypertensive population is significant but does not necessarily imply a poor prognosis; (2) mean 24-hour urinary protein excretion rates did not vary in response to the different classes of antihypertensive drugs; and (3) there was no drug-specific increase in proteinuria detected in this study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9182472
Diabetic patients are considered less suitable than nondiabetic patients for beta-blocker therapy because of the risk for worsened glucose and lipid metabolism and more severe hypoglycemic attacks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9185024
A case control study has reported a 60% higher risk of myocardial infarction in hypertensives treated with a calcium channel blocker (CCB). We examined the Department of Health Hypertension Care Computing Project (DHCCP) data to see if we could confirm or refute this suggestion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9191511
To describe the rationale and design of the Prospective Reinfarction Outcomes in the Thrombolytic Era Cardizem CD Trial (PROTECT).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9191619
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9199952
The influence of the beta-blocker metoprolol on the capacity either of low-dose dobutamine echocardiography or the recently introduced enoximone echocardiography to detect viable dysfunctioning myocardium after myocardial infarction was investigated. Initial clinical experience would suggest that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor enoximona could be an alternative pharmacological stimulation, inducing an increase in contractility in the presence or absence of beta-receptor stimulation. Ten patients with a baseline low-dose dobutamine-echocardiographic test (up to 10 micrograms/kg/min) positive for myocardial viability in > or = 1 segment(s), performed 4-5 days after a first acute myocardial infarction treated with rtPA, were randomized after the administration of intravenous metoprolol (15 mg in three 5-mg boluses) either to dobutamine (up to 15 micrograms/kg/min) or to an enoximone intravenous bolus (1 mg/kg over 5 min) under echocardiographic monitoring, in a crossover sequence, with a 24-h interval. The infarct related artery was patent (TIMI grade 2 o 3) in all the patients. Follow-up echocardiograms were performed 5-7 weeks later. Resting asynergy was found in 40 segments; of these, 17 were viable. All the viable segments remained unresponsive during the post-metoprolol dobutamine infusion, while improved their contractility during enoximone echocardiography. Two patients suffering from early post-infarction angina underwent coronary angioplasty successfully. Eight out of ten patients (2 revascularized and 6 not) showed contractile recovery in a total of 14 segments at the follow-up echocardiogram. Sensitivity, specificity and overall accuracy in predicting reversible dysfunction after acute myocardial infarction for enoximone echocardiography were 93, 85, and 88%, respectively. Our results support the value of enoximone echocardiography in the identification of myocardial viability after myocardial infarction, in patients treated with beta-blockers, which interfere heavily with the results of dobutamine echocardiography.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9200392
Surgical sympathectomy can relieve symptoms of angina in patients with refractory angina. However, in these high-risk patients this thoracic surgery may result in significant morbidity and mortality rates. Similar sympathetic blockade can now be produced with high thoracic epidural analgesia (HTEA). From September 1995 to August 1996, we treated 10 consecutive patients with HTEA. These eight men and two women, aged 58 +/- 5 years, with extensive three-vessel coronary disease and ejection fractions of 40% +/- 5%, had New York Heart Association (NYHA) class IV angina despite medical therapy, including nitrates, beta-blockade, calcium channel blockade, and narcotics. HTEA was performed at the T1 through T4 levels with a catheter placed either percutaneously or surgically, with radiographic confirmation of catheter placement with an epidurogram or computed tomography scan. Bupivacaine (0.25% to 0.5%), an amide local anesthetic, was given as a bolus through the epidural catheter and then maintained either as a continuous infusion or an intermittent rebolus. The epidural catheter remained in place for 7 days in four patients, 14 days in three patients, and > or =90 days in three patients. Before consideration for HTEA, each patient was deemed unsuitable for or refused coronary bypass surgery and percutaneous coronary angioplasty and had NYHA class IV symptoms of angina. Seven of 10 patients required intravenous nitroglycerin and heparin and were unable to be discharged from the intensive care unit because of anginal symptoms. Two of these seven patients also required an intraaortic balloon pump for symptom control. After HTEA, all 10 patients had improved symptoms, with five patients improving to NYHA class II symptoms and five improving to NYHA class III. All seven patients receiving intravenous nitroglycerin, heparin, or intraaortic balloon pump support had these modalities discontinued. Six of these seven patients were subsequently discharged from the hospital. One patient died from a non-HTEA related cause. There were no HTEA-related deaths. There were three catheter-related complications necessitating catheter removal during 12 months of HTEA use. Local infection developed in one patient, one had catheter occlusion caused by fibrosis, and one patient had chronic back pain exacerbation from a paraspinous muscle spasm. No patient had a myocardial infarction or a significant arrhythmia. In patients with otherwise intractable angina pectoris, HTEA is an effective modality that produces symptomatic relief of angina pectoris and allows increased activity level.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9200654
The aim of our study was to evaluate whether inhibition of ACE (lisinopril 10-20 mg/day) can reduce the rate of decline in kidney function more than reducing blood pressure with conventional antihypertensive treatment (atenolol 50-100 mg/day), usually in combination with a diuretic. We performed a prospective, randomized, parallel study for 42 months, double blind for the first 12 months and single blind thereafter. Forty-three (21 lisinopril and 22 atenolol) hypertensive NIDDM patients with diabetic nephropathy were enrolled. Data from 36 patients (17 lisinopril and 19 atenolol, 60 +/- 7 years of age, 27 men) who completed at least 12 months of the study period are presented. At baseline, the two groups were comparable: glomerular filtration rate (51Cr-EDTA plasma clearance) was 75 +/- 6 and 74 +/- 8 ml x min(-1) x 1.73 m(-2), mean 24-h ambulatory blood pressure (A&D TM2420) was 110 +/- 3 and 114 +/- 2 mmHg, and 24-h urinary albumin excretion rate was 961 (range 331-5,727) and 1,578 (476-5,806) mg/24 h in the lisinopril and atenolol groups, respectively. The mean follow-up time was similar, 37 and 35 months in the lisinopril and atenolol groups, respectively. Mean ambulatory blood pressure was equally reduced in the two groups, 12 +/- 2 and 10 +/- 2 mmHg in the lisinopril and atenolol groups, respectively. Glomerular filtration rate declined in a biphasic manner with a faster initial (0 to 6 months) change of 1.25 +/- 0.49 and 0.81 +/- 0.29 ml x min(-1) x month(-1) followed by a slower sustained decline (6 to 42 months) of 0.59 +/- 0.10 and 0.54 +/- 0.13 ml x min(-1) x month(-1) in the lisinopril and atenolol groups, respectively. No significant differences were observed in either initial or sustained decline in glomerular filtration rate between the two groups. Urinary albumin excretion was reduced (% reduction of baseline) more in the lisinopril than in the atenolol group, at 55 (95% CI 29-72) and 15% (-13 to 34), respectively (P = 0.01). In conclusion, the relentless decline in kidney function characteristically found in hypertensive NIDDM patients with diabetic nephropathy can be reduced equally effectively by two antihypertensive treatments, the beta-blocker atenolol and the ACE inhibitor lisinopril.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9205815
Obesity can modify the pharmacokinetics of lipophilic drugs. As beta-adrenoceptor blockers (BB) are often prescribed for obese patients suffering from hypertension or coronary heart disease, this study compares the pharmacokinetics of lipophilic beta-adrenoceptor blockers in obese and control subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9205847
Digitalis has been widely used in the treatment of cardiac disease for more than 200 years. The present article reviews the current role of digitalis in the management of heart failure and atrial fibrillation (AF) in light of recent study findings. Generally, first-line therapy for the management of heart failure due to systolic dysfunction should include an ACE inhibitor and a diuretic. In patients who remain symptomatic despite the use of these drugs, the addition of digoxin should be considered. Because digoxin has been shown to reduce the number of hospital admissions attributable to worsening heart failure, more liberal use of digoxin in the management of heart failure may be justified. Digoxin may be adequate as monotherapy for ventricular rate control in patients with chronic AF, particularly in sedentary and elderly patients. A beta-blocker or calcium antagonist (either alone or in combination with digoxin) is indicated when digoxin is ineffective for ventricular rate control. Digoxin is ineffective in restoring sinus rhythm, preventing paroxysms or controlling rate in paroxysmal AF. The elderly are at an increased risk of digoxin toxicity. Low dosages of digoxin appear to be effective in the treatment of heart failure due to systolic dysfunction and may reduce the incidence of digitalis toxicity in these patients. In elderly patients with AF and inadequate rate control who are receiving digitalis monotherapy, adding another atrioventricular nodal blocking drug may be more appropriate than increasing the digoxin dose, in order to avoid toxic digoxin levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9205939
The effects of 10 weeks of treatment with atenolol (n = 9) or the converting enzyme inhibitor zofenopril (n = 25) on plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) were studied in 34 essential hypertensive patients. After 4 weeks on placebo, pretreatment ANP, 56 +/- 7 pg/ml, was slightly but not significantly higher than that of 29 controls (41 +/- 4) and correlated with age (r = 0.44), ECG score for left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) (r = 0.51) and serum creatinine (r = 0.67), and negatively with creatinine clearance (r = -0.39). Atenolol reduced blood pressure (BP) by 0 +/- 6/8 +/- 2 mm Hg (ns/P < 0.01), and zofenopril by 14 +/- 4/6 +/- 2 (P < 0.01/P < 0.01), not significantly different between the two agents. Heart rate was decreased by atenolol (-16 +/- 4 bpm, P < 0.01) but not by zofenopril (+1 +/- 2 bpm, ns). Atenolol increased ANP in all patients but one (delta = +42 +/- 9 pg/ml, P < 0.01), while zofenopril did not change it significantly (-6 +/- 6 pg/ml), due to 15 patients exhibiting decreases and 10 increases in plasma ANP. The effect of atenolol on ANP positively correlated with duration of hypertension (r = 0.74), ECG score for LVH (r = 0.73) and serum creatinine (r = 0.68). Individual changes in ANP by zofenopril negatively correlated with pretreatment ANP (r = -0.69), ECG score for LVH (r = -0.44) and serum creatinine (r = -0.41). No correlations were found between BP, heart rate or their changes by treatment and the effect of either agent on plasma ANP. Multiple linear regression showed that the change in ANP was explained by the therapeutic agent used, the pretreatment plasma level of ANP, and the ECG score for LVH (F = 12.5, P < 0.001, r2 = 0.56). We conclude that the effect of antihypertensives on plasma ANP is independent of their action on BP, but dependent on an interaction between the type of drug employed and those clinical characteristics of the patient that reflect pre-existing hypertensive target organ damage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9207336
Beta-Blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are effective antihypertensive agents for patients with diabetes mellitus. However, beta-blockers attenuate some components of the autonomic response to hypoglycemia and could increase the risk of hypoglycemia. ACE inhibitors may increase insulin sensitivity and predispose users to hypoglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9207617
We sought to evaluate the current evidence for an effect of beta-blockade treatment on mortality in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9207639
This study was undertaken to define and better understand the characteristics and outcomes of patients with diabetes treated for acute myocardial infarction with contemporary thrombolysis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9212681
We retrospectively analyzed the effect of beta-blocking agents on the incidence of cardiac events in elderly patients who had had myocardial infarction. A total of 1169 patients who had had a myocardial infarction (age, 60.2 +/- 11.4 years) were followed for a mean of 18.0 +/- 19.7 months and the incidence of cardiac events (fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death, and death due to congestive heart failure) was computed. There were 21 cardiac events in 653 patients who received beta-blocking agents (3.2%) and 39 events in 516 patients who did not receive beta-blocking agents (7.6%, p < 0.01). Among patients less than 50 years old, the incidences of cardiac events were 4.1% in those who received beta-blocking agents and 7.6% in those who did not; among those 50 to 59 years old the incidences were 3.0% and 7.5%, respectively; among those 60 to 69 years old they were 4.3% and 6.0%, respectively; and among those 70 years old or older they were 0.8% and 11.4%, respectively (p < 0.01). We found that beta-blocking agents prevented cardiac events both in elderly and in younger patients after myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9213203
The aim of this study was to evaluate the antihypertensive effect of drugs according to the initial ambulatory blood pressure (BP) level. After a 15-day placebo run-in period, 105 patients with moderate essential hypertension (mean age, 52 years) underwent 24-h BP monitoring (spacelabs: 1 measure/15 min). Patients were subdivided into two groups: the "High" group, with 24-h mean values of systolic BP (SBP) > 137 or diastolic BP (DBP) > 87 mm Hg, and the "Low" group, with SBP < or = 137 and DBP < or = 87 mm Hg. All patients received, in a random and double-blind design, either bisoprolol (10 mg q.d.) or lisinopril (20 mg q.d.) for 8 weeks. At the end of this active treatment period, office and ambulatory BP measurements were performed. Casual measurements revealed similar BP decreases in all subgroups receiving bisoprolol and lisinopril; BP monitoring showed that the antihypertensive effect depended on the baseline mean 24-h value; -15/-12 mm Hg for bisoprolol and -18/-13 mm Hg for lisinopril in the High group; -7/-6 mm Hg for bisoprolol and -6/-6 mm Hg for lisinopril in the Low group. This study shows that the antihypertensive effect depended on initial ambulatory BP values, with a lower BP decrease in the Low group. Assessment of the antihypertensive effect on ambulatory BP is useful in clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9215330
To investigate the prevalence of and indications for digoxin use and the prevalence of beta blocker and calcium channel blocker use in older patients with previous myocardial infarction or coronary artery disease (CAD), and the prevalence of use of diuretics, beta blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and calcium channel blockers in older patients with hypertension in an academic hospital-based geriatrics practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9217564
A retrospective cohort analysis of 1,406 newly diagnosed hypertensive patients, aged 18 to 59, without prior coronary heart disease and initially treated with calcium channel blockers (CCBs) or eight other drug regimens was conducted to evaluate the relative risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) among patients on CCBs alone or with a diuretic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9217673
Randomized clinical trials demonstrate the efficacy of medical secondary prevention in coronary disease patients. The magnitude of risk reduction with exercise, diet, lipid modification, and smoking cessation is similar to other medical therapies for coronary disease such as aspirin, beta blockers, as well as coronary bypass surgery, (Table VI) In contrast to these therapies, however, secondary prevention stabilizes angiographic progression in about 50% of patients and induces regression in about 25% of patients. Both symptoms and perceived quality of life also are beneficially altered by secondary prevention programs, although possibly not by the magnitude reported for bypass surgery. These clinical trial results have led the American Heart Association, and the American College of Cardiology to strongly endorse secondary prevention. A reasonable projection based on these clinical trial data is that widespread use of these recommendations in the 12 million established coronary disease patients would significantly reduce coronary mortality and morbidity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9218667
Heart failure is often preceded by isolated systolic hypertension, but the effectiveness of antihypertensive treatment in preventing heart failure is not known.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9218922
To compare the antihypertensive efficacy of a new angiotensin II antagonist, valsartan, with a reference therapy, hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9219043
A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group study was performed in 80 adult outpatients meeting ICD-10 criteria for major depression and with a Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score of at least 18 at baseline. All patients received paroxetine (20 mg once a day) plus either pindolol (2.5 mg three times a day) or matching placebo for 6 weeks. Analysis of the day 14 MADRS scores on an intent-to-treat basis revealed a treatment-by-centre interaction, with a significant effect of pindolol being demonstrable at only one centre. At this centre, 25% of the paroxetine plus pindolol group and 0% of the paroxetine plus placebo group showed a decrease of at least 50% from baseline MADRS by day 4 (p < 0.05). At day 14, the proportions were 73% and 7%, respectively (p < 0.001). Analysis of covariance on a "perprotocol" population demonstrated a significant accelerator effect of pindolol at days 4 and 7 in the absence of a treatment-by-centre interaction, but a centre effect was apparent at later time-points. The results suggest that the latency of antidepressant action can be reduced with pindolol augmentation. A large multicentre study is in progress to investigate this effect further.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9222734
Haemorrhage from oesophageal varices is a life-threatening event in patients with liver cirrhosis. About 40-80% of patients surviving the first bleeding suffer a recurrence within 1 year. This high recurrence rate substantially contributes to the mortality in patients with liver cirrhosis. Therefore, various treatment regimens in both primary and secondary prophylaxis were studied. Most experience in medical primary prophylaxis was collected with beta-blockers, mainly propranolol. Treating patients with oesophageal varices with propranolol significantly reduces the incidence of first variceal bleeding. However, the effect on mortality is marginal, and primary prophylaxis is generally not recommended in these patients. Several studies support the hypothesis that medical prophylaxis with beta-blockers is more effective in reducing the rate of first oesophageal bleeding in patients with a high risk of haemorrhage, such as those with very large varices with red spots. A score to assess an individual patient's risk of variceal bleeding would be helpful, but until such a score has been validated, no general rule for this treatment decision can be given. In secondary prophylaxis, both beta-blockers and endoscopic therapy (sclerotherapy or ligation of the varices) are effective in lowering the rate of rebleeding. However, the effect on mortality was not significant in most studies. Several studies comparing the efficacy of medical prophylaxis and endoscopic treatment showed advantages of the endoscopic therapy with a greater reduction in recurrent bleeding episodes. However, medical prophylaxis with beta-blockers has the important advantage of being immediately effective, whereas endoscopic procedures provide the best protection against recurrent bleeding after complete obliteration of the varices. Therefore, in the first weeks and months of endoscopic therapy, additional treatment with beta-blockers may further reduce the risk of rebleeding. Only half of all studies on this topic reported a significant advantage with this combined therapy. Therefore, it seems reasonable to restrict this approach to patients with a high risk of rebleeding, such as patients with large sclerotherapy-derived oesophageal ulcers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9224506
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9226286
Heart rate variability (HRV) reflects autonomous activity that influences the heart. It has been shown that HRV is depressed during acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and that it recovers with time. Beta-blockers reduce mortality after AMI and changes in sympathico-vagal activity have been suggested to be of importance. Under certain animal experimental conditions, metoprolol has been reported to increase vagal tone more than atenolol, which could have clinical implications. The purpose of the present study was to compare the effects of atenolol and metoprolol treatments on HRV during 6 weeks after AMI and to follow the post MI changes in HRV in patients on betablockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9229549
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9230162
At 32-month follow-up of older patients with prior myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, and a left ventricular ejection fraction > or = 40% treated with diuretics plus angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and also with digoxin if atrial fibrillation was present, propranolol caused a 35% significant reduction in total mortality and a 37% significant decrease in total mortality plus nonfatal myocardial infarction compared with no propranolol. At 1-year follow-up, propranolol caused a significantly greater increase in left ventricular ejection fraction (6%) and a significantly greater reduction in left ventricular mass (34 g) than did no propranolol (2% and 20 g, respectively).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9230823
Brimonidin tartrate is a highly selective alpha 2-agonist. This study investigates the safety and efficacy of 0.2% brimonidine administered twice daily for 1 year in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9231814
Our objective was to compare cardiovascular event rates in patients with mild or moderate hypertension who received nifedipine with active drug controls. We performed a MEDLARS search using the MeSH heading "hypertension" and the text word "nifedipine" to identify all articles that were published between 1966 and August 1995 in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish languages and that involved human subjects. The computerized search was supplemented by a manual search of article bibliographies. Review of 1880 citations revealed 98 randomized controlled clinical trials that met protocol criteria. Articles were extracted independently by two doctors who were blinded for author, institution, and treatment regimen, using a structured, pretested extraction form. Differences of opinion were resolved by consensus. Fourteen events occurred in 5198 exposures (0.27%) to nifedipine and 24 events in 5402 exposures (0.44%) to other active drug controls. Unadjusted odds ratios for nifedipine versus controls were 0.49 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.22-1.09) for definitive events (death, nonfatal myocardial infarction or stroke, revascularization procedure) and 0.61 (95% CI, 0.31-1.17) for all events (definitive plus increased angina). The odds ratio for nifedipine monotherapy (sustained- or extended-release in 91% of exposures) was nonsignificantly higher for definitive and all events (odds ratio, 1.40; 95% CI, 0.49-4.03 and odds ratio, 1.39; 95% CI, 0.59-3.32, respectively). The odds ratio for nifedipine in combination with another drug was significantly lower for definitive and all events (odds ratio, 0.09; 95% CI, 0.01-0.66 and odds ratio, 0.15; 95% CI, 0.03-0.65, respectively). Differences in odds ratio for nifedipine monotherapy and combined therapy were statistically significant (P=.02 for definitive events and P=.001 for all events). Results support the safety of sustained- and extended-release nifedipine in the treatment of mild or moderate hypertension when it is used in combination with other drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9234823
The treatment of hypertension mainly with diuretics and beta blockers reduces cardiovascular mortality and morbidity, largely due to a decreased incidence of stroke, whereas the beneficial effects of antihypertensive therapy on the occurrence of coronary events have been less than expected from epidemiological studies. Furthermore, treated hypertensive patients still have a higher cardiovascular complication rate, compared with matched normotensives. This is particularly evident in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), a major independent risk indicator for cardiovascular disease. In addition to elevating blood pressure, angiotensin II (A-II) exerts an important influence on cardiac structure and function, stimulating cell proliferation and growth. Thus, to further reduce morbidity and mortality when treating hypertensive patients, it may be important to effectively block the effects of A-II. This can be achieved directly at the A-II receptor level by losartan, the first of a new class of antihypertensive agents. It therefore seems pertinent to investigate whether selective A-II receptor blockade with losartan not only lowers blood pressure but also reduces LVH more effectively than current therapy, and thus improves prognosis. The Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction (LIFE) in Hypertension study is a double-blind, prospective, parallel group study designed to compare the effects of losartan with those of the beta-blocker atenolol on the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in approximately 8,300 hypertensive patients (initial sitting diastolic blood pressure 95 to 115 mm Hg or systolic blood pressure 160 to 200 mm Hg) with electrocardiographically documented LVH. The study, which will continue for at least 4 years and until 1,040 patients experience one primary endpoint, has been designed with a statistical power that will detect a difference of at least 15% between groups in the incidence of combined cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. It is also the first prospective study with adequate power to link reversal of LVH to reduction in major cardiovascular events. The rationale of the study, which will involve more than 800 clinical centers in Scandinavia, the United Kingdom, and the United States, is discussed, and the major features of its design and general organization are described. On April 30, 1997, when inclusion was stopped, 9,218 patients had been randomized.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9236404
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9236433
Evidence of efficacy and safety of beta-blockers after thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is equivocal. Newer beta-blockers such as carvedilol have not been tested in this setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9243145
The object of this study was to investigate and compare the haemodynamic effects of treatment with a beta receptor blocker (metoprolol) or an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor (captopril) in 54 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9244644
The effects of bisoprolol on transient myocardial ischemia have been compared with those of nifedipine in patients with coronary artery disease in end-stage renal failure maintained on haemodialysis. We also evaluated the tolerability of both drugs. Sixty patients (42 males, 18 females, mean age 52 +/- 4 years) in renal failure maintained on haemodialysis, with coronary artery disease and more than four significant episodes of transient myocardial ischemia (> or = 1 min) during 48-hour Holter monitoring, were included in the study. All cardiovascular drugs were discontinued > or = 6 days before this 48-hour ambulatory ECG monitoring, with the exception of sublingual nitrates allowed for relief of anginal attacks. Patients were then randomized to receive either bisoprolol or nifedipine for 2 weeks. After a 15-day wash-out period, they were crossed over to receive either bisoprolol or nifedipine for other 2 weeks. Statistical analysis was carried out using the Student's t test. A p value < 0.01 was considered significant. Both bisoprolol and nifedipine reduced number and duration of transient ischemic episodes as well as the total ischemic burden. Reductions were statistically significant for both antianginal drugs. Only bisoprolol was effective in silent ischemia (p < 0.001). It also reduced heart rate (p < 0.001), while nifedipine raised it (p < 0.001). Both drugs reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure. The circadian variations of transient ischemic episodes showed two peaks in the 24 hours. Both peaks were reduced with bisoprolol. Nifedipine brought a clear overall reduction in the number of episodes but the circadian pattern was unchanged. During the study, 10 patients taking bisoprolol and 12 patients taking nifedipine had drug adverse effects. No one of them had to be withdrawn from treatment. In conclusion, bisoprolol seems to be more useful than nifedipine because its effects, in transient ischemic episodes, are greatly superior to those of nifedipine, and because it is effective also in silent ischemia. Both drugs showed a good tolerability in these patients. Bisoprolol, reducing the two daily peaks of ischemic episodes frequency, has a protective role towards mortality due to coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9251545
To compare the effectiveness and tolerability of hydrochlorothiazide, atenolol, nitrendipine, and enalapril in patients with mild to moderate hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9251876
The objective of the present study was to assess the efficacy of bisoprolol in migraine prophylaxis. A double-blind placebo-controlled study was conducted in 226 patients with migraine with or without aura, a migraine history of at least 2 years at least 3 documented attacks during the 28 days run-in period. The duration of treatment was 12 weeks following an initial 28 days' run-in period. Patients reported the number of attacks and their severity in a diary. Treatment with bisoprolol 5 mg resulted in a significant reduction in the frequency of migraine attacks (39% vs 22%) compared to placebo treatment (p < 0.05). Treatment had no effect on the duration and severity of the attacks. Bisoprolol was well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9253384
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9257080
Despite remarkable advances in cardiovascular therapeutics, sudden cardiac death remains a significant problem. In this review, data from clinical trials and other studies on antiarrhythmic therapies have been evaluated in order to determine effective strategies for the prevention of sudden cardiac death in high risk patients. Overall, routine prophylactic use of class I antiarrhythmic agents in high risk patients, mostly survivors of acute myocardial infarction, is associated with increased risk of death [61 trials, 23,486 patients: odds ratio (OR) 1.13; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.01 to 1.27, p < 0.05]. Conversely, beta-blockers are associated with highly significant reductions in risk of death in postinfarction patients (56 trials, 53,521 patients: OR 0.81; 95% CI 0.75 to 0.87, p < 0.00001). Overall data from the amiodarone trials on high risk patients, including postinfarction patients, patients with congestive heart failure or survivors of cardiac arrest, suggest that this agent is effective in reducing the risk of death (14 trials, 5713 patients: OR 0.83; 95% CI 0.72 to 0.95, p = 0.01) although further studies are needed to better define which types of patients will potentially benefit most from this agent. No benefits were seen with calcium channel blockers (26 trials, 21,644 patients: OR 1.03; 95% CI 0.94 to 1.13, p = NS). The implantable cardioverter-defibrillator is a promising option for high risk patients, but definition of its role awaits the completion of ongoing clinical trials. Since causes of sudden death are heterogeneous, the clinician should pursue a multifactorial approach to its prevention. Primary and secondary prevention of cardiac ischaemia, through the treatment of cardiovascular risk factors and maximising the use of aspirin, beta-blockers, lipid-lowering drugs, and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors after acute myocardial infarction, should lead to a future decrease in the incidence of sudden cardiac death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9259162
Heart failure therapy with beta-receptor blockade has been shown to effect a partial reversal of left ventricular (LV) remodeling in heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9260367
Essential hypertension is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Atenolol, a cardio-selective beta-blocker, has been shown to be a safe and effective antihypertensive agent. The extended-release form of felodipine (felodipine ER), a vascular-selective dihydropyridine calcium blocker, is extensively used in Caucasians. However, its effectiveness, tolerability and adverse side-effect have not been assessed in Chinese populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9263654
Paradigms for the treatment of heart failure have changed substantially over the past several decades. It has been the performance of relatively large, carefully controlled and often mortality endpoint trials that has given us great insight into therapies that are advantageous, disadvantageous, or neutral with respect to outcomes in patients with heart failure. No longer is the care of a patient with ventricular dysfunction and heart failure solely rooted in the prescription of a diuretic and digoxin. Indeed, we have seen a rather radical evolution from this prescription practice to approaches that were thought to be contraindicated at one time, such as beta blocker and vasodilator therapy. Indeed, treatment paradigms today are shifting rapidly toward more complete attenuation of adrenergic processes known to be detrimental in this setting. It is important to review the recent clinical trials that have given us further insight into managing heart failure. Twenty trials published since 1995 have been selected because of the important insight they give us regarding the wide spectrum of therapeutic options available for individuals with heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9269942
We studied the characteristics of bunazosin-sensitive alpha1-adrenoceptors in human renal medullae by using renal-clearance studies and radioligand-binding assay. In 12 patients with hypertension, renal-clearance studies demonstrated that bunazosin significantly increased renal blood flow from 683 +/- 82 (SD) to 829 +/- 103 ml/min (p < 0.05) and decreased renal vascular resistance from 0.18 +/- 0.02 to 0.14 +/- 0.02 mm Hg/(ml/min) (p < 0.05), but that prazosin had little effect on renal function. In a radioligand-binding assay, specific, saturable, and stereoselective [3H]bunazosin binding, with a single class of binding sites (Kd = 2.7 +/- 1.4 nM; Bmax = 44 +/- 16 fmol/mg protein; n = 11) was detected in membrane preparations of human renal medullae. The rank order of potency of antagonists that inhibited [3H]bunazosin-binding was bunazosin (Ki in nM = 49) > prazosin (57) > yohimbine (3,900) > propranolol (29,000), and that of agonists, l-norepinephrine (7,400) > l-epinephrine (19,000) > d-norepinephrine (71,000). The competition curves fit a one-site model. These findings suggest that bunazosin-sensitive alpha1-adrenoceptors exist in human renal medullae and participate in the regulation of renal hemodynamics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9270085
The blood pressure lowering effect and tolerability of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril combined with a very low dose of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) were compared with the selective betareceptor blocker atenolol in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Three hundred seventy-four patients were randomized into a triple-blind, parallel, active-controlled 12-week study period comparing enalapril/HCTZ (20/6 mg) with atenolol (50 mg) after a 4-week placebo baseline period. Blood pressure (BP), clinical and laboratory safety, and metabolic laboratory variables were assessed. Enalapril/HCTZ as well as atenolol reduced both sitting and standing diastolic and systolic BP (P < .001), but enalapril/HCTZ had a more pronounced effect than atenolol on sitting systolic BP (P = .019); there was a trend toward more patients achieving target diastolic BP (<90 mm Hg, P = .053). No clinically important differences in safety and tolerability were observed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9280714
In patients with chronic glomerular nephropathy associated arterial hypertension and proteinuria are considered to be cardinal risk factors in the progressive deterioration of renal function. Treatment regimens which reduce proteinuria and hypertension improve prognosis. The effect of the new beta-receptor blockers compared to common ACE-Inhibitors is of special interest.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9282610
In 102 cases of severe hypertension (DBP > or = 115 mm Hg), with or without acute complications, efficacy and safety of SL Nifedipine 10 mg (NIF), SL Captopril 25 mg (CAP), IV Metoprolol 15 mg (MET) and SL NIF + IV MET were studied in an inpatient trial. Maximum mean percent reduction in SBP was 13.3, 9.7, 15.7 and 19.9 and in DBP was 21.2, 13.9, 12.5 and 20.4 with NIF, CAP, MET and NIF + MET respectively. A safe DBP of < or = 110 mm Hg (Kaplan) was achieved in 90, 61, 72.2 and 95.2 percent of patients. A statistically significant fall in DBP was observed at 5 minutes with all regimens except CAP which was at 15 minutes. Mild side effects observed were palpitations and flushing (NIF n = 4), taste disturbances (CAP n = 3), heaviness of head (CAP n = 1) and giddiness (MET n = 2, NIF + MET n = 2). The trial data suggest that hypertensive crisis can be managed, without intensive care facility, with all four regimens; this implies significant cost containment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9284428
Over the past few decades, numerous randomized controlled studies of the treatment of hypertension have been conducted in Western countries to determine whether blood pressure reduction reduces the risk of stroke and myocardial infarction. Diuretics and beta blockers, because they have been shown in clinical trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, are the preferred drugs of first choice. No direct evidence yet supports the theoretical advantages of calcium channel blockers and ACE inhibitors over diuretics and beta blockers. Because East Asian nations differ culturally from Western countries, it is very difficult to conduct a randomized trials, thus, there were no reports of large, long-term, randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials of hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9285109
Sexual dysfunction has been identified in numerous controlled trials to be a frequent accompaniment to antihypertensive therapy. Issues of cause and effect are confused because hypertension itself can cause sexual dysfunction. It seems probable, however, that use of certain classes of blood pressure-lowering agents, notably non-cardioselective beta blockers such as propranolol, thiazide diuretics such as chlorthalidone and centrally-acting adrenergic agonists, is associated with an increased risk of sexual dysfunction. The implications of these data for compliance with antihypertensive therapy are considered.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9289367
Carvedilol has been shown to determine a significant improvement in left ventricular function, symptoms, clinical course and prognosis of patients with chronic heart failure. However, these results were obtained in medium-term studies of < 1 year duration. We report the results obtained with long-term (3-4 years) carvedilol administration to 40 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy who were initially recruited in a 4-month double-blind placebo-controlled trial. In the initial 4-month double-blind trial, 20 patients were randomized to placebo and 20 to carvedilol treatment. All patients, except one who was not on ACE-inhibitors, were on digoxin, furosemide and ACE-inhibitors. Carvedilol or placebo doses were progressively titrated, at weekly intervals, up to the maximal doses of 25 mg bid. After the initial 4-month double-blind phase, all patients were followed long term. Mean follow-up duration was 52 +/- 12 months (range 48-61). Among the 20 patients initially randomized to carvedilol administration, 4 died (3 for cardiac and 1 for extracardiac causes) and 2 underwent heart transplant. Among the 20 patients initially randomized to placebo, 5 died for cardiac causes, 3 underwent heart transplant and 4 were started on carvedilol because of progressive heart failure during the initial 4 months of the study. The remaining 8 patients, who were kept on digoxin, furosemide and ACE-inhibitors, were used as control group. Each patient underwent an assessment of clinical conditions (NYHA functional classification and Minnesota Living with Heart Failure questionnaire), equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography, and maximal cardiopulmonary bicycle exercise testing. Exams were performed before treatment, after 4 and 12 months, and at the end of the follow-up period. No significant difference between the carvedilol and control group was present at baseline. Compared with baseline, patients in the control group presented a significant increase in left ventricular end-diastolic volume after long-term follow-up (from 126 +/- 62 to 138 +/- 43 and 158 +/- 52 ml/m2 after 12 and 48 months, respectively). No significant difference, compared to baseline values, was noted. Patients on carvedilol presented a persistent improvement in left ventricular function. This was shown by the progressive increment in left ventricular ejection fraction from 22 +/- 6 to 34 +/- 11, 37 +/- 11 and 37 +/- 13%, after 4, 12 and 48 months, respectively (p < 0.001) with a concomitant reduction in left ventricular end-diastolic volume from 147 +/- 54 to 101 +/- 44 ml/m2 at the end of the follow-up (p < 0.05). NYHA functional class remained significantly improved, in comparison with baseline (2.6 +/- 0.5 to 1.9 +/- 0.3, 1.9 +/- 0.8 and 2.0 +/- 1.0 after 4, 12 and 48 months, respectively; p < 0.01). Maximal functional capacity, assessed as peak VO2 was not significantly changed after 4 months (from 15.2 +/- 3.6 to 16.4 +/- 4.0 ml/kg/min) and showed a tendency towards a further improvement after 12 months and at the end of the follow-up (17.3 +/- 5.6 and 17.2 +/- 5.3 ml/kg/min, respectively). These results show that the favorable effects of carvedilol administration on left ventricular function and clinical symptoms are maintained also after long-term treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9292396
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9293727
Myocardial infarction-remains one of the leading causes of death among adults in the United States despite the significant advances in therapy made during the past three decades. However, a significant reduction in mortality following acute myocardial infarction has been accomplished through an aggressive strategy directed toward early recognition and intervention. This approach requires that the emergency physician act promptly and choose appropriately from the ever-expanding therapeutic options. This paper summarizes the recent progress and treatment options in the management of acute myocardial infarction with regard to prehospital care, diagnostic challenges in the emergency department, conventional therapy and pharmacologic advances, newer interventional measures, and future trends.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9296310
This 1-year, dose-titration, General Practitioner (GP) study compared efficacy, tolerability and safety of oral temocapril (10-40 mg once daily) with atenolol (25-100 mg once daily) in mild to moderate adult hypertensives (diastolic blood pressure (DBP) 95-114 mmHg). A 12-week dose-titration period, randomized 3:1 temocapril: atenolol, preceded 40 weeks long-term treatment. An intent-to-treat population of 472 patients was analysed for efficacy after 12 weeks dose-titration. Sitting DBP fell significantly (p < 0.001) in both groups, by mean +/- standard deviation (SD) 15.9 +/- 5.7 mmHg on temocapril and by 16.6 +/- 5.9 mmHg on atenolol. Therapeutic equivalence was demonstrated using the two one-sided t-tests procedure according to Schuirmann (equivalence interval [theta 1 - theta 2] < or = 5 mmHg). Responders (DBP < or = 90 mmHg) represented 89.9% of temocapril and 94.0% of atenolol patients. The lower doses were effective in 70.9% of temocapril patients (10 or 20 mg) and in 63.7% of atenolol patients (25 or 50 mg), these doses being continued after the dose titration period. No clinically relevant changes in haematological, biochemical and urinalysis variables occurred. Adverse events were few, largely unrelated to treatment and comparable between groups. In conclusion, temocapril and atenolol proved to be therapeutically equivalent antihypertensives.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9296895
The quality of life (QL) in 90 male patients (age 41.2 +/- 41) suffering from Ist IInd hemodynamic WHO-stage of essential arterial hypertension has been studied during 3 months therapy. The patients have been divided into 3 groups treated with enalapril, atenolol and verapamil respectively. The Sickness Impact Profile, Bulpitt's test and Spitzer's test were used for evaluation of QL. Significant reduction in diastolic arterial blood pressure has been achieved during the treatment period. In the same time improvement in QL indices was observed, most evident in group of enalapril, moderate in group of verapamil and the minor in atenolol group. It is concluded that these three QL test (SIP, Bulpit, Spitzer) are very useful in monitoring of treatment of the essential arterial hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9298044
This study assesses differences in blood pressure (BP) levels prospectively between office (manual) measurement and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) in 70 treated, essential, hypertensive patients. The objective was to determine whether ABPM is superior to office measurement for assessing adequacy of therapy. Twenty-four patients received monotherapy and 46 received multiple therapy. Thirty-five patients were administered medication in the morning only, whereas 33 were administered medication in the morning and evening both. Mean systolic BP by manual method was identical to that obtained by ABPM (141.98 +/- 14.98 mm Hg versus 141.46 +/- 16.33 mm Hg, respectively). However, mean diastolic BP by manual method was significantly higher than that obtained by ABPM. (90.38 +/- 9.01 mm Hg versus 86.69 +/- 10.65 mm Hg, respectively; P < 0.001). Significant correlations (P < 0.01) were found between the BP levels measured by these two methods, although individual readings differed by 10 mm Hg or more systolic and by 5 mm or more diastolic in many subjects. No significant differences were noted in BP levels measured by either method for patients treated by monotherapy or multiple therapy, and none were noted whether they were taking medication in the morning or in both the morning and evening. In addition, no differences were noted in BP levels using either method for race. Thus, this study shows that the office measurement is grossly similar to ABPM for assessment of adequacy of therapy in treated hypertensive patients whose blood pressure is controlled adequately. However, ABPM is found to be superior to office measurement in identifying hypertensive patients whose blood pressure is not controlled adequately or is uncontrolled.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9307671
In the last 2 years there has been considerable controversy over the safety of certain calcium antagonists. This article discusses recent drug developments, summarizes the publications that sparked the controversy, highlights results of the l latest trials of calcium antagonists and considers the range of clinical conditions in which calcium antagonists may play a useful role.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9311358
To compare the efficacy of divalproex sodium (Depakote) with that of propranolol hydrochloride (and placebo) for the prophylaxis of migraine without aura.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9313591
Sotalol's usefulness in treatment of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter is unproven. This study evaluated (1) the efficacy of sotalol in preventing recurrences of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter and controlling ventricular rate (in chronic atrial fibrillation or relapse of paroxysmal atrial arrhythmias), (2) the safety of sotalol, and (3) predictors of sotalol efficacy. Thirty-three patients, 28 with paroxysmal and five with chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, received an average dose of 265 +/- 119 mg of oral sotalol per day. During a 10 +/- 12 month follow-up, recurrence rate for paroxysmal arrhythmia was 64%, with a 50% recurrence at 4.6 months. For patients with chronic atrial fibrillation, ventricular rates were well controlled with sotalol administration (136 +/- 33 beats/min versus 88 +/- 23 beats/min; p = 0.04). No patient with chronic atrial fibrillation converted to sinus rhythm during the study. Side effects necessitated sotalol discontinuation in three patients. By multivariate analysis, younger age, higher ejection fraction, and absence of hypertension independently predicted sotalol efficacy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9315764
Ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) monitoring is used increasingly in clinical practice, but how it affects treatment of blood pressure has not been determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9315986
It has been suggested that (1) the clinical efficacy of the heterocyclic antidepressant trazodone in depression may, in part, be attributed to its metabolite meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP); and (2) the enhancement of the efficacy of trazodone by the addition of fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, may, in part, be ascribed to fluoxetine-induced plasma concentrations of trazodone. After a washout period of 10 days, 27 inpatients with major depression were treated with trazodone 100 mg/day (orally). One week later (T0), fluoxetine 20 mg/day, placebo, or pindolol 7.5 mg/day was added. Plasma concentrations of mCPP and trazodone were determined at T0 and 2 and 4 weeks later. Although placebo pindolol had no significant effect on the plasma concentrations of mCPP and trazodone, there was a significant increase of the concentrations of these compounds associated with the combination of trazodone + fluoxetine. The results suggest that fluoxetine-induced increases in plasma mCPP and trazodone concentrations contribute to the clinical efficacy of the combination of fluoxetine + trazodone. It is suggested that desensitization of 5-HT2C receptor function by mCPP as well as fluoxetine may contribute to the antidepressant effects of this combination.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9316529
This study tested the hypothesis that metoprolol restores the reduction of the inotropic effect of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-phosphodiesterase inhibitor milrinone, which is cAMP dependent but beta-adrenoceptor independent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9323940
To evaluate the ocular hypotensive effect and safety of carteolol hydrochloride 1% vs timolol maleate 0.5%.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9324103
In hypertensive disease, the extent of target organ damage determines the prognosis. We conducted a 6-month, double-blind randomized study to compare the effects of an alpha1-adrenoreceptor blocker (bunazosin) with those of a beta1-adrenoreceptor blocker (metoprolol) on early hypertensive target organ damage at a similar level of blood pressure reduction. The study consisted of 43 patients (29 men and 14 women) of varying ages (mean age 52 +/- 9 years) with essential hypertension World Health Organization stage I-II. Both the alpha- and the beta-blocker lowered blood pressure to a similar extent measured by 24-h blood pressure monitoring. The left ventricular mass was comparably reduced in both cohorts (alpha-blocker 284 +/- 80 v 259 +/- 67 g, P < .05, beta-blocker 282 +/- 74 v 254 +/- 70 g, P < .05). Treatment with the alpha-blocker led to reduced total peripheral resistance (22.9 +/- 8.0 v 19.9 +/- 5.3 U, P < .05), whereas therapy with the beta-blocker resulted in an elevated total peripheral resistance (25.5 +/- 8.4 v 28.5 +/- 9.3 U, P < .10; P < .05 for the difference in both groups). Renal plasma flow remained constant in the alpha-blocker treated group but decreased in the beta-blocker treated group (508 +/- 141 v 477 +/- 134 mL/min/1.73 m2, P < .05). Glomerular filtration rate as measured by inulin clearance tended to increase after treatment with the alpha-blocker (112 +/- 20 v 115 +/- 18 mL/min/1.73 m2, P < .10) in accordance with a decrease of serum creatinine (1.00 +/- 0.14 v 0.93 +/- 0.12 mg/dL, P < .001). Plasma cholesterol and LDL cholesterol was lowered after treatment with the alpha-blocker (238 +/- 48 v 312 +/- 37 mg/dL; P < .001, and 153 +/- 32 v 130 +/- 25 mg/dL; P < .05) while remaining unchanged in group treated with the beta-blocker. Left ventricular hypertrophy was similarily reduced with alpha- and with beta-blockade at a comparable reduction of 24-h blood pressure. Alpha-blockers effected a more favorable renal and systemic hemodynamic profile than beta-blockers, but only long-term prospective studies will answer the question whether these hemodynamic effects result into a better cardiovascular prognosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9327317
The association of atrial fibrillation with thoracic surgical procedures is well known, but nevertheless its cause is not well defined. Increased sympathetic activity may play a role in the development of atrial fibrillation, and reduced beta-receptor activity may be advantageous. The objective was to evaluate the effect of oral beta-blockade on the frequency of atrial fibrillation and to evaluate some possible causative factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9329280
In a retrospective study of the pattern of drugs used in the initial treatment of hypertension, 300 case notes of hypertensive patients attending medical clinics at the Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital, Accra and whose treatment were initiated during the period 1973-1993, were reviewed. The mean age of patients was 55 years, mean pre-treatment systolic and diastolic pressures were 179.5 +/- 25. 5 and 108.5 +/- 14.2 mm Hg, respectively, with 85% of patients being female. The frequencies of individual drugs prescribed for the initial treatment of hypertension were: diuretics (90%), reserpine (46%), methyldopa (31%), and propranolol (30%). Single drug treatment was prescribed for 18%, two drugs for 60% and three or more (multiple drugs) for 22% of patients. The mean number of drugs per patient was 2.2 Patients prescribed multiple drugs had pre-treatment systolic and diastolic blood pressures which were significantly (p < 0.01) higher than those prescribed 2 drugs which were, in turn, higher (p < 0.001) than those prescribed single drugs. The results showed that during the period 1973-1993, diuretic based "stepped care" therapy was the main first line anti-hypertensive drug management regime. "Old" anti-hypertensive drugs were more commonly used than newer ones. The cost and availability drugs and the pretreatment blood pressure were probably the main determinants of the choice of the type and number of drugs prescribed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9330125
Many patients remain markedly symptomatic despite optimal current therapy for heart failure. Beta-blockers have often been viewed as contraindicated in this group because of their potential adverse short-term effects on cardiac function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9335414
A randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted in 82 obese patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension, to determine the incidence of hyperinsulinemia, the relations between fasting insulin and dihydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S) levels, and the short-term effects of antihypertensives on DHEA-S and insulin serum concentrations. Increased insulin/glucose ratios (IGR) suggestive of insulin resistance were found in half of our patients. Hyperinsulinemic and normoinsulinemic obese patients with hypertension had comparable fasting glucose and DHEA-S concentrations and comparable blood pressure (BP) levels. Thus no relations were found between fasting insulin and DHEA-S levels. Fasting hyperinsulinemia was found in only half of the obese subjects with hypertension, suggesting that not all obese patients with hypertension are at the same high cardiovascular risk. Short-term treatment with captopril, prazosin, verapamil, atenolol, or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) reduced BP; greater BP reduction was observed with drugs with vasodilatory effects. Captopril, prazosin, and verapamil reduced fasting insulin levels, whereas atenolol and hydrochlorothiazide did not. The former drugs reduced fasting insulin levels that were either within normal limits or in the hyperinsulinemic range. None of the drug treatments produced significant increases in serum DHEA-S concentrations, although some of them considerably reduced fasting insulin levels. No relations between insulin and DHEA-S levels were observed either at baseline or at the end of the antihypertensive treatment. The BP reduction resulting from the peripheral vasodilation may explain the insulin-reducing action of captopril, verapamil, and prazosin. These results further emphasize the large heterogeneity present in the pathophysiologic mechanisms operating in obesity and hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9336024
Drugs used in the acute and long-term management of hypertension in pregnancy and the preeclampsia-eclampsia syndrome have been reviewed and their therapeutic effects and maternal and fetal adverse effects have been considered. The review also focuses on recent developments in the areas of prevention and management of pre-eclampsia-eclampsia syndrome. Although a number of new drugs have emerged, as potentially useful in the management of hypertension in pregnancy and pre-eclampsia-eclampsia syndrome, some remain at the cornerstone of therapy; for example, methyldopa for long-term treatment of chronic hypertension, hydralazine or nifedipine for rapid reduction of severely elevated blood pressure, and magnesium sulphate for eclampsia. Some of these agents, especially the calcium antagonists, show promise in that their use is associated with fewer side effects. Safety for the fetus, however, has not been adequately evaluated yet. Neither aspirin nor calcium supplements appear to improve the outcome in pregnancy. Currently, the dilemma whether to treat hypertension in pregnancy and pre-eclampsia-eclampsia syndrome with old, established, cost-effective drugs or the promising newer drugs provides an interesting academic challenge.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9337190
To further evaluate the mechanism of beta-blocker-induced benefits in heart failure, the relationships between bisoprolol-induced hemodynamic effects and survival were studied during the Cardiac Insufficiency BIsoprolol Study (CIBIS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9337224
This study aimed to describe the incidence of atrial fibrillation (AF) among older adults during 3 years of follow-up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9339958
It was first reported by our group in 1975 that heart failure due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) could be improved by long term treatment with a beta-blocker, starting at a low dose and continuing with a stepwise up-titration. Since then, many studies have been performed in patients with heart failure of various aetiologies and the beneficial effects of long term beta-blockade have been confirmed. About 3000 patients have been included in randomised studies in which beta-blockade, given for more than 2 months, mostly elicited significant improvements in functional class, exercise capacity, cardiac function, quality of life and/or morbidity. When started at a very low dose (one-tenth to one-twentieth of the doses generally used in angina or hypertension), the treatment is well tolerated in most patients. In these studies, various types of beta-blockers were used, including beta1-selective blockers and nonselective blockers with additional properties (vasodilator and antioxidative) such as metoprolol, bisoprolol, bucindolol and carvedilol. Several large studies have also reported benefits on mortality and morbidity. In the Metoprolol in Dilated Cardiomyopathy (MDC) trial, metoprolol treatment in patients with IDC resulted in a 34% reduction of the primary combined endpoint, total number of deaths and need for cardiac transplantation. In the Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study (CIBIS), in patients with idiopathic as well as ischaemic cardiomyopathy, there was a nonsignificant 20% reduction in mortality. In the US carvedilol studies (n = 1094), also in patients with ischaemic and idiopathic cardiomyopathy, carvedilol reduced mortality by 65%, which was highly significant. A nonsignificant reduction in mortality was observed in the Australia-New Zealand (ANZ) Heart Failure Study with carvedilol. In all these studies there was a reduction in hospitalisations, with all drugs being generally well tolerated. It can thus be concluded that the beneficial effects of beta-blockers on cardiac function and morbidity have been documented in a large number of studies in selected groups of patients. The treatment has been accepted in some countries by the regulatory authorities. Larger, placebo-controlled studies are needed to convincingly demonstrate a reduction in total mortality as observed in the pooling of the 4 US carvedilol studies. Such studies are in progress for various beta-blockers, which may lead to acceptance of their routine clinical use in patients with congestive heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9340476
The Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study (CIBIS) demonstrates that, for patients with heart failure of different etiologies, the administration of the beta(1)-adrenoceptor blocker bisoprolol adjuvant to the standard therapy leads to a significant avoidance of hospital admissions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9342132
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) induces sympathetically mediated hemodynamic alterations that can be associated with myocardial ischemia and arrhythmia generation. Esmolol, a short-acting beta-blocker, blunts the hypertension and tachycardia seen with ECT. The purpose of this study is to determine whether esmolol use during ECT reduces the incidence of myocardial ischemia or arrhythmias after ECT. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled protocol, with each patient acting as his/her own control, the effects of esmolol on the incidence of myocardial ischemia and arrhythmias were studied using two-lead Holter monitoring for at least 2 h post-ECT. Nineteen patients underwent 71 ECT treatments (34 placebo, 37 esmolol), recording 746 h of Holter data. The esmolol group had significantly reduced heart rate and mean arterial pressure immediately after ECT. There was no difference in the incidence of ECG defined ischemia post-ECT between groups, with 7 of 19 (36.8%) patients in the esmolol group showing ST-segment depression compared with 5 of 19 (26.3%) in the placebo group. There was no difference between groups in arrhythmia detection. This experiment demonstrates that (a) ECT is associated with a significant incidence of ST-segment depression, (b) esmolol blunts the sympathetic discharge during ECT, and (c) esmolol does not reduce the incidence of post-ECT ischemia or arrhythmia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9342580
Valsartan (V), a specific inhibitor of the angiotensin II receptor subtype, AT1, has been developed for treatment of hypertension. Combination therapy with a beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent might be considered in cases with insufficient efficacy of V alone. Therefore, an interaction trial was performed to evaluate the effects of co-administration of V on the pharmacokinetics of atenolol (A), and vice versa, and to monitor the pharmacodynamic response of plasma angiotensin II (ANG II) concentrations and plasma renin activity (PRA), as well as of heart rate and blood pressure, under resting and exercise conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9347267
The three major European scientific societies in cardiovascular medicine--the European Society of Cardiology (ESC), the European Atherosclerosis Society and the European Society of Hypertension--published in October 1994 joint recommendations on prevention of coronary heart disease in clinical practice. Patients with established coronary heart disease, or other major atherosclerotic disease, were deemed to be the top priority for prevention. A European survey (EUROASPIRE) was therefore conducted under the auspices of the ESC to describe current clinical practice in relation to secondary prevention of coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9352865
In patients with cirrhosis of the liver, after the first variceal bleeding episode, transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunting (TIPS) and endoscopic sclerotherapy plus propranolol (ES) were compared regarding prevention of variceal rebleeding and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9352866
Isosorbide-5-mononitrate (Is-5-Mn) exerts beneficial hemodynamic effects in portal hypertension, yet the long-term clinical value is uncertain. The aim of this study was to determine the long-term effects of Is-5-Mn vs. propranolol (Pro) on first bleeding, complications, and death in cirrhosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9352867
Variceal rupture is believed to occur when variceal wall tension is excessive. The combined use of endosonography, allowing the objective measurement of variceal radius, and endoscopic measurement of transmural variceal pressure may enable assessment of this important parameter. The aim of this study was to assess the effects on variceal hemodynamics of drugs acting through different mechanisms: decreasing portocollateral blood flow (propranolol) or resistance (isosorbide-5-mononitrate [ISMN]).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9352888
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9352970
The purpose of this retrospective study was to examine 732 consecutive patients who underwent dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) in order to compare the safety and result profiles of this test between women versus men and in patients > or = 75 and < 75 years of age. Our study included 416 women (57%) and 316 men (43%; mean age 62 +/- 12 years [range 16 to 93]). Patients were divided into 3 age groups: (1) group I (n = 179): < 55 years (mean 47 +/- 6), (2) group II (n = 447): 55 to 74 years (mean 64 +/- 5), and (3) group III (n = 106): > or = 75 years (mean 80 +/- 4). DSE was more likely to have negative results in women than in men (prevalence of positivity = 20% vs 31%, p = 0.001), but DSE had a similar safety profile in both genders. Women required lower doses of dobutamine and atropine to reach an end point. There was a similar incidence of test positivity in older and younger patients (23% in group I, 24% in group II, and 30% in group III, p = NS). DSE was generally a safe test in patients > or = 75 years, but there was a different safety profile in the elderly group compared with younger patients--specifically, more frequent asymptomatic hypotension (7% in group I, 13% in group II, and 25% in group III, p = 0.0002) and ventricular arrhythmias (26% in group I, 30% in group II, and 41% in group III, p = 0.04), but less frequent chest pain (32% in group I, 23% in group II, and 17% in group III, p = 0.009). Multivariate analysis suggested that the baseline usage of beta blockers was also a major determinant of the safety and ischemia profile during DSE. In conclusion, there were significant gender- and/or age-specific differences in the safety and test result profile of DSE. These differences should be considered when performing or interpreting DSE, particularly in women and in patients aged > or = 75 years.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9354317
Tedisamil is a new blocker of K+ currents in cardiac tissues, exerts bradycardic effects and has shown clinical efficacy in angina pectoris. Theoretically, when coadministered with a beta-adrenoceptor blocker the tedisamil combination could induce dangerous bradycardia and QT interval prolongation. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of tedisamil and atenolol alone and in combination, on heart rate and QT interval duration at rest and during exercise tests.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9356089
Sevoflurane is associated with less tachycardia and coronary vasodilation than isoflurane and thus might be associated with less myocardial ischemia. This multicenter study examined the incidence of myocardial ischemia and adverse cardiac outcomes in adults (40-87 yr) with cardiac disease having elective noncardiac surgery. Patients were randomized to receive either sevoflurane (S) (n = 106) or isoflurane (I) (n = 108) in conjunction with sodium thiopental, vecuronium, fentanyl, and 50%-70% N2O. Intraoperative hemodynamics were maintained within 20% of awake baseline with standard drugs. A Holter monitor was applied 3-24 h before surgery and maintained until 48 h after surgery. Electrocardiograms and blood samples for analysis of the MB isoenzyme fraction of creatine phosphokinase were obtained preoperatively and daily for 48 h postoperatively. Anesthetic exposure (1.79 +/- 0.15 [mean +/- SE] minimum alveolar concentration-hour) and duration of surgery (219 +/- 13 min) did not differ between groups. The incidence of ischemia in the pre-, intra- and postoperative periods, adverse cardiac outcomes (18% occurrence), intraoperative hemodynamic variations (+/-20% change from ward baseline), and administration of adjunct cardiovascular medications were similar between groups. In cardiac patients having noncardiac surgery, sevoflurane was comparable to isoflurane with respect to the incidence of intra- and postoperative myocardial ischemia and in the frequency of adverse cardiac outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9359554
The effects of cardioselective beta blockade on ventilation and gas exchange were investigated in 12 male subjects with coronary artery disease during ramp treadmill testing. Patients were able to maintain much of their functional capacity as measured by oxygen consumption in the beta-blocked condition, and also maintained minute ventilation by increasing respiratory rate despite a decrease in tidal volume.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9361646
To provide Canadian physicians with evidence-based guidelines for the pharmacologic treatment of hypertensive disorders in pregnancy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9361662
To investigate the prevalence of beta-blocker use in older persons with prior myocardial infarction (MI) or coronary artery disease (CAD) without contraindications to beta-blockers in an academic hospital-based geriatrics practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9362385
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9377617
Tamsulosin, an alpha 1A-adrenoceptor antagonist, has recently been approved to treat patients with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Tamsulosin is highly selective for prostatic receptors with minimal affinity for vascular receptors. Therefore, it should have little effect on blood pressure and should not potentiate other agents' antihypertensive activity. To test this hypothesis, we conducted three randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled studies to evaluate how coadministration of tamsulosin would affect the pharmacodynamic profiles of nifedipine, enalapril, and atenolol. Each study enrolled 12 hypertensive men aged 45 years or older whose blood pressure was being controlled with maintenance doses of nifedipine (study 1), enalapril (study 2), or atenolol (study 3). All 36 subjects were treated with placebo for 5 days and then randomly assigned to either placebo (control group) or tamsulosin therapy (0.4 mg/d for 7 days followed by 0.8 mg/d for 7 days) in addition to continuing their maintenance antihypertensive therapy. Blood pressure and pulse rate were monitored over a 24-hour period on study days 4, 11, and 19. Coadministration of tamsulosin in these small studies had no clinically significant effects on the pharmacodynamic action of nifedipine, enalapril, or atenolol; it produced no clinically significant differences in pulse rate and blood pressure, did not alter electrocardiographic or Holter monitoring results, and did not cause increased side effects. Coadministration of tamsulosin with the three antihypertensive agents studied had a favorable safety profile. Our results in these small studies indicate that the dose of nifedipine, enalapril, or atenolol did not require adjustment in patients given tamsulosin, which may give tamsulosin an advantage over other alpha-blocking agents used to treat patients with BPH. Now that tamsulosin has been approved in the United States, further clinical use may confirm these findings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9377859
Several studies have shown in essential hypertension alterations of the transmembrane red blood cells sodium fluxes, as an involvement, especially in the early phases, also of the adrenergic system. In this study we evaluated the behaviour of red blood cells fluxes of sodium before, during and after the cold pressor test, a method used also to evoke an adrenergic stimulation, in twenty hypertensive subjects, 14 males and 6 females, with an average age of 43.2 +/- 5.7 years, with normal weight and without cardiovascular complications and metabolic diseases. The behaviour of the Na+ total efflux (Na+ TE), of the Na+/K+ pump, of the Na+K+ cotransport (Na+/K+ CT), of the Na+/Li+ counter transport (Na+/Li+ Cnt), of the Na+ passive permeability (Na+ PP), of the intracellular Na+ (I Na+) and of the plasmatic noradrenaline (NE) was evaluated basally, at the third minute during cold pressor test (CPT) and 20 minutes after the end of the test. The test, which the same method, was repeated after a 30 day treatment with propranolol at the dose of 240 mg/day in three daily administrations. The beta-blockade caused, besides the reduction of both the systolic and diastolic pressure values, a significant increase in the Na+/K+ CT (from 248 +/- 41 to 314 +/- 71 mmol/l/cells/h, p < 0.001) and a decrease in the Na+ PP (from 0.039 +/- 0.004 to 0.023 +/- 0.007 hr-1, p < 0.00001), probably directed towards the reduction of the accumulation of intracellular Na+, that could compete, among the other mechanisms, with the anti-hypertensive action of the beta-blockers. The CPT caused, before the beta-blockade, a significant depression of the Na+/K+ pump (from 2057 +/- 149 to 1610 +/- 101 mmol/l/cells/h, p < 0.00001) and of the Na+ TE (from 2640 +/- 397 to 2032 +/- 179 mmol/l/cells/h, p < 0.00001) inversely correlated to the levels of NE (r = -0.60, p < 0.003), with a consequent increase in I Na+ (from 6.2 +/- 0.6 to 7.5 +/- 1.5 mmol/l/cells, p < 0.001), showing how the adrenergic activation in hypertensive subjects is able to interfere with the systems of transmembrane transport with an inhibitory attitude, that is expressed by an increase in the levels of I Na+. The beta-blockade was able to outweigh the depression of the Na+/K+ pump (from 1843 +/- 584 to 1728 +/- 640 mmol/l/cells/h, p: ns) and the reduction of the Na+ TE, preventing the accumulation of I Na+ (from 6.3 +/- 1.6 to 6.6 +/- 1.3 mmol/l/cells, p: ns). Such data show an increased susceptibility of the Na+ transport systems to the adrenergic stimuli in hypertensive subjects with a tendency to favor the accumulation of I Na+ and that the beta-blockade is able to antagonize the effects, with a maintenance of the intracellular levels of Na+.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9381523
Atrial natriuretic peptide and cyclosporine have opposing effects on renal hemodynamics and excretory function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9382659
Secondary prevention of ischemic heart disease refers to the process of preventing further morbidity and reducing mortality rates in patients with clinical manifestations of the disease. Twenty-five large randomized, clinical trials addressing mortality rates and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with established ischemic heart disease are reviewed. Broadly defined, these were trials of aspirin and antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, lowering of cholesterol levels, exercise rehabilitation, and diet or vitamins. In trials using warfarin sodium, timolol maleate, propranolol hydrochloride, captopril, ramipril, and simvastatin and 2 diet studies, statistically significant improvements in total mortality rates were seen. Most other studies showed non-significant reductions in total mortality rates, with statistically significant reductions in 1 or more measures of cardiovascular morbidity. The methods necessary for the reader to calculate the number (of patients) needed to treat for other studies are also reviewed. The uses and limitations of the number needed to treat as a method to compare studies of different interventions in similar populations are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9383182
To study the forearm vascular resistance in patients at rest and during ischaemia and cardiovascular responses to noradrenaline infusions during treatment with a beta1-adrenoceptor antagonist, metoprolol, and with an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9383607
To describe the mortality rate and the place and mode of death during a 5-year follow-up of patients admitted to hospital with congestive heart failure following an acute myocardial infarction (AMI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9391283
To assess the prognostic value of atrioventricular plane displacement in heart failure patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9391772
Several randomised studies have demonstrated that various nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) elevate blood pressure in normotensive and hypertensive individuals; however, these data have been contradicted by numerous negative studies. Two meta-analyses have demonstrated that, after pooling data drawn from published reports of randomised trials of younger adults, NSAID use produces a clinically significant increment in mean blood pressure of 5 mm Hg, most marked in patients with controlled hypertension. Stratification by NSAID type revealed that piroxicam, naproxen and indomethacin had the greatest, and sulindac the smallest, pressor effect. These data were supported by 2 large community studies involving elderly patients. Recent NSAID users had a 1.7-fold higher risk of requiring the initiation of antihypertensive therapy compared with nonusers; NSAID users also had a 40% increased risk of receiving a diagnosis of hypertension compared with nonusers. It is vital to determine the nature of the association in the elderly, 12 to 15% of whom are concurrently receiving an NSAID and an antihypertensive agent. Importantly, a 5 to 6 mm Hg increase in diastolic blood pressure maintained over a few years may be associated with a 67% increase in total stroke risk and a 15% increase in coronary heart disease events. While the mechanism(s) remain speculative, salt and water retention through several factors operating in parallel, coupled with increased total peripheral vascular resistance, via increased renal endothelin-1 synthesis, are potentially important. Clinicians should strive to avoid excessive use of NSAID treatment and consider well-tolerated therapeutic alternatives, including simple analgesics and physical therapy. For patients who require concomitant NSAID and antihypertensive treatment, physicians should be aware that indomethacin, naproxen and piroxicam may be associated with a greater pressor effect than many other NSAIDs, and that antagonism of beta-blockers may be greater than that of vasodilators (including ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists) and diuretics. Finally, the progress of each patient should be monitored by careful blood pressure measurement, particularly during the period of initiation of NSAID therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9395279
Relationships between apolipoproteins and other lipid parameters and cardiovascular (CV) prognosis were evaluated in the Angina Prognosis Study In Stockholm (APSIS). Out of 809 patients with stable angina pectoris, lipid variables were obtained in 786 patients at baseline, and after one month's double-blind treatment with metoprolol or verapamil, to evaluate treatment effects on these lipid variables. During a median follow-up time of 3.3 years (2663 patient years), 37 patients suffered a CV death, 30 suffered a non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) and 100 underwent a revascularization. Apolipoprotein (apo) A-I, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides were predictors of CV death or non-fatal MI in univariate analyses, but only apo A-I remained as an independent predictor in multivariate analyses. All lipid variables except low density lipoprotein cholesterol were related to the risk of revascularization in univariate analyses, but only apo A-I and apo B were independent predictors of such events. Triglycerides were weakly, but not independently, associated with prognosis. Verapamil and metoprolol had differential short-term effects on lipids, with a shift towards a more atherogenic profile in metoprolol treated patients. However, there was no significant impact of the treatment given, or of these treatment effects on the risk of CV events. Results of the present study suggest that apolipoprotein levels were better predictors of CV events than other lipid parameters in patients with stable angina pectoris.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9397289
In view of the important impact of small-artery structural and functional abnormalities on complications of hypertension and recent data suggesting that some antihypertensive agents may correct some of these abnormalities, a study of resistance artery structure and function in 20 well-controlled essential hypertensive patients who had received for a prolonged period of time monotherapy with the once-a-day extended release formulation of the calcium channel antagonist nifedipine (nidefipine GITS) or with the beta-blocker atenolol is reviewed. Resistance-size small arteries (standardized lumen diameter of 247 +/- 8 microns) were studied after dissection from a gluteal subcutaneous biopsy. Small arteries were investigated on a wire myograph and as pressurized vessels. On the myograph, the media width-to-lumen diameter ratio of arteries was 5.37 +/- 0.09% in normotensive subjects, 5.38 +/- 0.18% in patients treated with nifedipine GITS, 6.81 +/- 0.18% in patients treated with atenolol and 7.08 +/- 0.12% in untreated hypertensives (p < 0.001, untreated or atenolol-treated patients vs. normotensives or nifedipine-GITS-treated hypertensives), and similar results were found in pressurized arteries. Contractility and endothelium-dependent relaxation were impaired in small arteries from untreated or atenolol-treated patients in comparison to those from normotensive subjects or nifedipine-GITS-treated patients. In conclusion, hypertensive patients with well-controlled blood pressure under treatment for more than 1 year with nifedipine GITS exhibit normal structure and function of small arteries, whereas similar patients whose blood pressure is as well controlled by the beta-blocker atenolol present abnormally thick small arteries with impaired contractility and endothelium-dependent relaxation. It will be important to determine whether small arteries of other vascular beds are also improved by nifedipine GITS treatment of elevated blood pressure and whether this results in reduced morbidity and mortality in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9400905
To evaluate the effects of antihypertensive agents on the circadian blood pressure (BP) of patients with previous brain infarction, the ambulatory BP was measured non-invasively for 24 h before and after administration of antihypertensive agents. One hundred milligrams of acebutolol twice daily (n = 15) is effective in lowering the BP during the daytime, but has little effect during the night and the morning. Twenty milligrams of slow-release nifedipine twice daily (n = 14) produced a consistent reduction in the BP over the entire 24-h period and effectively blunted the rise in BP in the morning. Captopril (12.5 mg) twice daily (n = 15) produced a mild reduction in BP with little change in the circadian pattern. The slow-release nifedipine group had the greatest decrease in mean systolic and diastolic BP. The heart rate significantly increased after administration of slow-release nifedipine and decreased after administration of acebutolol. To reduce stroke recurrence, we should consider the effects of antihypertensive agents on circadian BP in hypertensive patients with previous brain infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9402450
The study aimed to compare the addition of felodipine to metoprolol, and of the replacement of metoprolol by felodipine, with continuation of metoprolol, in patients with angina pectoris despite optimal beta-blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9403359
5-HT is currently indicated to play a role in migraine (M). Previously evidenced 5-HT supersensitivity which characterizes M is insufficient to compensate for a possible deficit in 5-HT bioavailability. Inducing a further up-regulation of 5-HT receptor can yield improvement of M syndrome. Chronic treatments of methysergide and propranolol, drugs exerting antagonist action at 5-HT receptors, induced a significant amelioration in 256M sufferers. On the contrary, chronic treatments of ergotamine and sumatriptan, both provided with a 5-HT1 agonist activity, induced a worsening of M in 134 M sufferers. The M worsening was paralleled by an increase in consumption of analgesic drugs. Discussion concerns the effects of the chronically given 5-HT agonists and antagonists as well as the possible receptor mechanism underlying "craving for serotonin" in severe M. The increase of 5-HT supersensitivity evidenced at the end of M attacks is also discussed and its role in determining the interruption of the attack is here suggested.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9404261
The presenting features and treatment responses of six children with junctional ectopic tachycardia are evaluated. Two of the patients were siblings and both presented in early childhood with cardiopulmonary failure. The elder sibling died, the surviving sibling was controlled on a combination of amiodarone, digoxin, and sotalol. The remaining four patients presented in later childhood with tachycardia induced cardiomyopathy. Two of the patients were diagnosed incidentally and have normalised their myocardial function on sotalol therapy. The other two presented in congestive cardiac failure. Radiofrequency His bundle ablation and insertion of a permanent pacemaker to control the arrhythmia was undertaken in the elder of the two patients. The remaining patient has had marginal recovery of myocardial function on a combination of amiodarone and sotalol treatment. Improvement in myocardial function may take several months and is dependent on control of the tachycardia in some patients. Sotalol, when used as single or combination treatment, was partially successful in four cases in reducing heart rate. None of the patients reverted to sinus rhythm.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9408290
The peroxidative processes and individual antioxidant protection were measured in patients with different cardiovascular diseases. We concluded that monitoring of this system we were able to detect not only the actual changes of lipid peroxidation and antioxidant defence mechanisms, but additionally the therapeutic efficacy of the treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9408806
A double-blind study was undertaken to investigate the period of treatment with the beta-adrenoreceptor/5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT1A) antagonist pindolol required to enhance the antidepressant effects of paroxetine. After 1 week of a placebo run-in period, 63 untreated major depressive inpatients were randomly assigned to three different groups. Group 1 received paroxetine (20 mg/day) plus placebo (4 weeks). Group 2 received paroxetine (20 mg/day) plus pindolol (7.5 mg/day) for 1 week and placebo for 3 weeks. Group 3 received both active treatments for the entire duration of the study (4 weeks). Clinical response was defined as a reduction of the score in the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) to 8 or below. Also, to preliminarily examine whether beta-adrenoreceptor blockade was involved in the action of pindolol, another group of 10 inpatients was treated in an open-label manner with paroxetine (20 mg/day) plus 50 mg/day of the beta-adrenergic antagonist metoprolol, devoid of significant affinity for 5-HT1A receptors. At endpoint, the incidence of treatment-emergent side effects did not significantly differ among the three groups. After 1 and 2 weeks of treatment, the two groups treated with paroxetine plus pindolol displayed a significantly greater response rate than the group treated with paroxetine plus placebo. At study completion, only the patients treated with pindolol for the entire period showed a significantly greater response rate (p = 0.05). HAM-D score were also significantly lower at endpoint in patients treated with the combination for 4 weeks (p = 0.00003). The group of patients treated with paroxetine and metoprolol exhibited a side-effect profile comparable to that of paroxetine alone. Response rates were also comparable. These findings support the efficacy of pindolol, but not of metoprolol, in accelerating the antidepressant effect of paroxetine and suggest that the administration of pindolol for the entire period of the acute treatment may increase the efficacy of paroxetine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9411335
The efficacy and safety of daily 20 mg betaxolol monotherapy was investigated in mild-moderate essential hypertension in a four week long, open label, single blind trial (with a placebo run-in). Twenty one patients of both sexes were enrolled. The systolic blood pressure in the supine position decreased from 158 to 142 mmHg, the diastolic blood pressure from 101 to 89 mmHg. The mean systolic values of the 24 hours ambulatory blood pressure monitoring decreased from 136 to 126 mmHg, the mean diastolic values from 87 to 80 mmHg. All decreases in blood pressure were significant. The reduction of the heart rate (80/min vs 63/min) was also significant. The decrease in blood pressure during daytime was significant, during night it was moderate. The blood pressure- and heart rate reducing effect of betaxolol was detectable however in the second half of the night, before wake-up. No side effect was recorded.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9416986
The aim of this double-blind, parallel group study was to compare the effects of nebivolol and atenolol on blood pressure (BP) and insulin sensitivity in hypertensive patients with type II, non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). After a 4-week run-in period on placebo, 30 patients (14 males and 16 females) aged 43 to 69 years, with stable NIDDM and mild to moderate hypertension (DBP > or =95 and <116 mm Hg) were randomised to receive either nebivolol 5 mg or atenolol 50 mg, both administered once daily for 6 months. At the end of the placebo and the active treatment periods, supine and standing BP was measured, 24-h urinary C-peptide, HbA1c, plasma glucose and lipid levels were evaluated and an euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp was performed to evaluate insulin sensitivity: glucose infusion rate during the last 60 min of clamp and total glucose requirements were evaluated. Nebivolol 5 mg once daily was of an equivalent efficacy as atenolol 50 mg once daily at reducing supine and standing systolic and diastolic BP values. Neither beta-blocker adversely affected carbohydrate metabolism in terms of insulin sensitivity, whole body glucose utilization, HbA1c and 24-h urinary C-peptide excretion. No significant changes in cholesterol (total, high density and low density lipoprotein) and triglycerides plasma levels were observed with both beta-blockers. These findings indicate that, in hypertensive patients with NIDDM, ie, in subjects who have established insulin resistance, treatment with nebivolol and atenolol neither further deteriorated insulin sensitivity nor adversely affected the lipid profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9416987
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9428940
Creatine kinase (CK) and its isoenzyme CK-MB are important tools for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction. The content of CK-MB relative to total CK in myocardial cells is variable; it is low in normal myocardium and increased several-fold in hypoxic myocardium. We tested the hypothesis that CK-MB mass (CK-MBm) could be related to cardiovascular history, preinfarctional medication and clinical course during myocardial infarction. In a prospective study CK and CK-MBm were measured 0, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 72 h after the admission to the coronary care unit. Peak values and areas under the curve (AUC) were determined and normalized for total CK activity (CK-MBm/CK). Of 185 patients with acute chest pain, 70 patients had 71 acute myocardial infarctions and were enrolled in the study. A history of chronic angina pectoris or hypertension had no influence on CK-MBm/CK levels. In contrast, treatment with beta-blockers before infarction resulted in a lower relative CK-MBm peak value (CK-MBm/CK 6.0 (median value), range 3.1-15.3, versus 7.0, range 0.5-17.3: p < 0.05). Other drugs had no influence. Patients with persistent pain on admission tended to have higher relative CK-MBm values (peak CK-MBm/CK: 6.8, range 0.5-17.3, versus 5.3, range 1.4-7.9, p = 0.08; AUC CK-MBm/CK: 0.05, range 0.01-0.10, versus 0.03, range 0.01-0.06, p < 0.05). Three vessel disease on coronary angiography was associated with higher peak CK-MBm/CK values during the acute phase of myocardial infarction than those with 1-2 vessel disease (Peak CK-MBm/CK: 7.9, range 5.5-17.3, versus 6.4, range 3.1-10.2, p < 0.05; AUC CK-MBm/CK: 0.06, range 0.02-0.11, versus 0.04, range 0.02-0.07, p < 0.05). We conclude that relative CK-MBm/CK levels reflect to a certain degree the extent of the coronary disease and that preinfarctional beta-blockade may result in lower CK-MBm levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9431839
Zolmitriptan (Zomig, formerly known as 311C90), a selective 5HT1B/1D agonist is under development as an acute oral treatment for migraine. Despite the use of prophylactic medication, such as propranolol, breakthrough attacks often occur in patients. Consequently we investigated the effects of propranolol on the pharmacokinetics of, and cardiovascular responses to, zolmitriptan.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9438743
Prerandomization run-in periods are being used to select or exclude patients in an increasing number of clinical trials, but the implications of run-in periods for interpreting the results of clinical trials and applying these results in clinical practice have not been systematically examined. We analyzed illustrative examples of reports of clinical trials in which run-in periods were used to exclude noncompliant subjects, placebo responders, or subjects who could not tolerate or did not respond to active drug. The Physicians' Health Study exemplifies the use of a prerandomization run-in period to exclude subjects who are nonadherent, while recent trials of tacrine for Alzheimer disease and carvedilol for congestive heart failure typify the use of run-in periods to exclude patients who do not tolerate or do not respond to the study drug. The reported results of these studies are valid. However, because the reported results apply to subgroups of patients who cannot be defined readily based on demographic or clinical characteristics, the applicability of the results in clinical practice is diluted. Compared with results that would have been observed without the run-in period, the reported results overestimate the benefits and underestimate the risks of treatment, underestimate the number needed to treat, and yield a smaller P value. The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial exemplifies the use of an active-drug run-in period that enhances clinical applicability by selecting a group of study subjects who closely resembled patients undergoing active clinical management for this problem. Run-in periods can dilute or enhance the clinical applicability of the results of a clinical trial, depending on the patient group to whom the results will be applied. Reports of clinical trials using run-in periods should indicate how this aspect of their design affects the application of the results to clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9440450
The present study was carried out in order to examine those factors that influence the rate of expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9441156
Between 1965 and 1995 the incidence of heart failure has been constantly rising and the mortality from this disease has increased fivefold. The introduction of ACE-inhibitors and of adrenergic beta-blockers have resulted in major symptomatic improvements in patients with mild to moderate heart failure. For end-stage disease, heart transplantation offers by now the only therapeutic option and yields excellent results. The permanent implantation of left heart assist-devices is just gaining increasing importance. Yet, both methods also have inherent drawbacks and may not be available to all patients, so that new methods are constantly evaluated. Cardiomyoplasty was introduced into clinical practice in 1985 by Alain Carpentier and since then more than 700 patients have been operated worldwide. After dissection of the latissimus dorsi muscle it is wrapped around the heart in a clockwise fashion (Figure 1). Two sensing electrodes are placed on the anterior aspect of the right ventricle and two stimulation electrodes between the proximal branches of the thoracodorsal nerve (Medtronic SP 5548). The electrodes are then connected with a burststimulator (Cardiomyostimulator, Medtronic 4710) (Figure 2). During the first 2 weeks following the operation the muscle is not stimulated in order to allow for the healing process. Thereafter, a stimulation protocol with a programmed, staged increase of the stimulation frequency is started, to induce transformation of the skeletal muscle into a "fatigue resistant" tissue. After 3 months the muscle is stimulated with every second heart beat (2:1 mode) with full burstimpulses containing 6 single impulses per burst for a duration of 185 ms (Figure 3). Cardiomyoplasty was conceived for patients in NYHA III and severely impaired myocardial function, in whom drug treatment does not produce the expected benefits. The criteria for patient selection are strictly followed, since it has been shown in the past, that the preoperative condition of the patient is of specific importance for the postoperative outcome. Contraindications are NYHA IV, advanced right ventricular dysfunction, secondary pulmonary hypertension (> 600 dyn x s x cm-5), LV end-diastolic diameter > 70 mm und AV-valve incompetence > Grad II. Between July 1985 und October 1996 647 patients received a cardiomyoplasty with the Medtronic Cardiomyoplasty System and the results from 438 patients were analyzed from the "Worldwide Cardiomyoplasty Study Group". One and 2 years following the operation NYHA-class had improved by one class in 41.9% and 53.3%, respectively, and by 2 classes in 38.1% and 30.5%, respectively. In 16% and 15% no improvement was found (Figure 4). Prospective investigation of the quality of life by a score revealed a considerable improvement in the level of daily activities and social interaction. In contrast, two years after the operation, only a small, but significant increase in LV-EF from 22.9 +/- 8.1% to 25.8 +/- 9.7% (p < 0.05) was shown. Heart rate, maximal O2-consumption, total exercise time, cardiac index, stroke volume and stroke work index did not change. According to the results of a recent FDA-study, in-hospital mortality was 12% between 1991 and 1993, and was reduced during a second phase starting 1994 to < 3%. One, 2 and 3-year survival of 349 patients who were in NYHA-III prior to the operation was 69%, 56% und 47%, respectively. 43 patients who were operated in NYHA IV exhibited considerably worse survival with only 48% after 1 year and 30% after 2 years, respectively. In a subgroup of 103 patients with a statistically low operative risk, 1, 2 and 3-year survival was 77%, 71% und 61%, respectively (Figure 5). As a mechanism of action the skeletal muscle wrap exerts some active improvement of systolic wall motion of the heart/skeletal muscle complex. However, probably more important is an acute and chronically persisting shift of the pressure-volume relation to the left. This process results in a "reverse remodel

Abstract for pubmed ID 9442782
The aim of the study was to assess the efficacy and safety of latanoprost in the long-term treatment of glaucoma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9443168
This prospective, open multi-centre study on flunarizine focused on the risk/benefit ratio of the use of flunarizine in the prophylaxis of migraine and in the treatment of vertigo, due to disorder of the vestibular system. The assessment of risks focused on the incidence of new events of depression and/or extrapyramidal syndrome during flunarizine treatment. For migraine, flunarizine was compared to propranolol in 686 patients; for vertigo, flunarizine was compared to betahistine in 198 patients. The incidence of depression during follow-up in this study was significantly higher in the flunarizine group than in the propranolol group in the condition of migraine. There were no observations of an extrapyramidal syndrome. There was a suggestion that flunarizine has more benefits than propranolol in the condition of migraine, and that betahistine has more benefit than flunarizine in the condition of vertigo. Differences in dosages could possible explain these differences.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9443770
Angiotension converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and beta-blockers have been reported to possess disparate effects on insulin sensitivity. The aim of this study was to study the effects of the selective beta-1 blocker bisoprolol and of the ACE inhibitor captopril on cellular insulin action in hypertensive individuals. After washout, 12 mild to moderate essential hypertensives were randomized in a double-blind manner to 5 mg bisoprolol daily or 25 mg captopril twice daily for 8 weeks. Erythrocyte insulin binding and insulin-stimulated tyrosine kinase (TK) activity were measured before and after therapy. Both agents decreased diastolic blood pressure significantly (bisoprolol 96.5+/-0.9 to 87.8+/-3.1 mm Hg; captopril 96.5+/-0.9 to 91.5+/-1.8 mm Hg; P < .05). Fasting plasma glucose, insulin, and insulin/glucose indices remained unchanged after both therapies, as did lipid profiles. Maximal insulin-stimulated TK activity, assessed by phosphorylation of the exogenous substrate poly-Glu80Tyr20, was significantly higher (P < .05) after bisoprolol treatment, but not after captopril treatment, when compared to placebo (bisoprolol 8.5+/-1.8; captopril 7.3+/-1.5; placebo: 6.4+/-1.3 pmol 32P-ATP/fmol bound insulin). However, captopril, but not bisoprolol, increased the sensitivity of the receptor TK activity, as measured by the half-maximal activity concentration (ED50). Specific insulin binding was not affected by these two agents. Thus, both captopril and bisoprolol may have favorable but different effects on TK activity and insulin action at the cellular level.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9444298
The Randomized Evaluation of Strategies for Left Ventricular Dysfunction (RESOLVD) Pilot Study is a trial of combination neurohormonal blockade using an angiotensin II antagonist (candesartan), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (enalapril) and a beta-blocker (metoprolol) in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9444452
Health care decision-makers require more information on differences in compliance rates associated with alternative classes of antihypertensive drugs and the implications of these differences for health care utilization and costs. We examined medical claims data from the Pennsylvania Medicaid Management Information System to investigate compliance rates for four major antihypertensive drug classes (angiotensin-converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors, beta-blockers, calcium antagonists, and diuretics) and the health care costs associated with noncompliance. Multivariate analysis was used to relate antihypertensive drug class with compliance and variations in compliance with health care costs. The highest estimated rates of compliance were associated with ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists, and these rates were significantly greater than with beta-blockers and diuretics. Moreover, poor compliance was associated with higher health care costs. Efforts to increase compliance with antihypertensive drug therapy are needed to improve patient outcomes and reduce health care costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9447850
Perioperative myocardial ischemia occurs in 20-40% of patients at risk for cardiac complications and is associated with a ninefold increase in risk for perioperative cardiac death, myocardial infarction, or unstable angina, and a twofold long-term risk. Perioperative atenolol administration reduces the risk of death for as long as 2 yr after surgery. This randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial tested the hypothesis that perioperative atenolol administration reduces the incidence and severity of perioperative myocardial ischemia, potentially explaining the observed reduction in the risk for death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9453014
We examined a family with autosomal-dominant hypertension and brachydactyly from northeastern Turkey. The hypertension was defined as severe, resulting in stroke before age 50 years, featuring normal renin, aldosterone, and catecholamine responses, and did not appear to be salt-sensitive. The responsible gene resides on chromosome 12p. To determine which medications were most effective, we performed a prospective clinical trial. We studied 13 affected individuals in a randomized double-blind, cross-over trial including a beta-blocker (BBL), alpha-blocker (ABL), calcium channel blocker (CCB), converting enzyme inhibitor (CEI), and hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) and placebo (PLA). We then added moxonidine (MOX) and continued the trial for an additional period in a single-blind fashion. Each drug was given for four weeks with an option to double the dose after two weeks; each washout period comprised two weeks. Blood, 24-hour urine, and saliva were studied at the outset, and blood and urine samples were obtained at the end of each phase. Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate measurements were with the patient ambulatory at 24 hours. All regimens required doubled doses at two weeks. Beta blocker, CCB, CEI, and ABL lowered BP (6 to 10 mm Hg) and BP load compared to PLA, while HCT and MOX did not. Converting enzyme inhibitor and HCT increased plasma renin activity (PRA), while BBL lowered PRA. The 24-hour urine analysis indicated a high dietary salt intake with a low potassium and calcium intake. The salivary electrolytes showed similar sodium and potassium concentrations, while chloride values were significantly higher in affected than nonaffected subjects. Thus, this monogenic form of hypertension resembles nonsalt-sensitive essential hypertension in that BBL, CCB, CEI, and ABL were effective, while HCT was not. The BP reduction was similar to other single drug trials in essential hypertension. The high salivary chloride values suggest an additional intermediary phenotype that may be related to electrolyte transport. These results raise the possibility that an as yet unknown hypertensive mechanism is operative in these subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9456279
New-onset atrial fibrillation (AF) is frequent after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), and beta-blockers decrease its incidence. To examine whether a beta-blocker with class III properties is superior to a pure one, 191 consecutive patients undergoing CABG were randomized to receive oral sotalol, 120 mg daily (n = 93), or metoprolol, 75 mg daily (n = 98), postoperatively. The doses were adjusted if beta-blockade was inadequate or excessive. AF occurred in 16 (16%) of 98 sotalol patients and in 30 (32%) of 93 metoprolol patients (p < 0.01). Symptoms related to beta-blockade or proarrhythmia did not appear. After CABG, sinus heart rate increased in both groups (p < 0.001) but less in the sotalol patients (p < 0.001) throughout the postoperative period. Corrected QT duration (by the Bazett equation) was prolonged after the operation in both groups (p < 0.001), whereas uncorrected QT duration at similar heart-rate levels were prolonged only in sotalol patients (mean increase, 31 ms; 95% confidence interval, 2042 ms; p < 0.01). Uncorrected QT durations at similar heart-rate levels were longer during sotalol (compared with metoprolol) treatment (p < 0.05). Heart rates or QT durations did not differ between the patients with or without AF. In conclusion, sotalol significantly reduces the incidence of AF after CABG. Although a marked class III effect is demonstrated with relatively low doses (as prolonged ventricular repolarization) in direct comparison unbiased by any rate correction, its contribution as an enhanced antifibrillatory mechanism in the postoperative state remains unconfirmed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9456288
The effects of a vasodilating beta-blocker, celiprolol, on insulin sensitivity and cardiovascular risk factors were compared with those of another beta1-selective adrenoceptor blocker, calcium channel blockers, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. A randomized 21-month crossover trial was carried out with 25 patients with dyslipidemia receiving antihypertensive monotherapy. The study consisted of a 3-month active run-in period and two treatment periods, during which the patients received celiprolol (200-400 mg daily) or the control drug for 12 and 6 months in a crossover manner. A hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp and an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) were performed every 6 months. According to the clamp tests, the insulin-sensitivity index increased on average by 32% (p < 0.0001) during celiprolol treatment compared with that with the other antihypertensive agents, including ACE inhibitors. In OGTT, area under the incremental glucose curve decreased by 36% (p = 0.002) during celiprolol treatment, whereas insulin secretion diminished on average by 26% (p = 0.006). The mean decrease in fasting serum triglycerides was 11% (NS), whereas the high-density lipoprotein to low-density lipoprotein (HDL/LDL) ratio increased by 15% (p = 0.012). The results suggest that celiprolol improves insulin sensitivity of hypertensive patients with dyslipidemia in long-term therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9457458
To compare the efficacy and safety of a newly developed ophthalmic solution containing carteolol 2% and pilocarpine (2% (CBS341A) with a timolol 0.5% and pilocarpine 2% fixed combination.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9462584
We 1) evaluated whether interleukin-6 (IL-6) is produced in the peripheral circulation in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), 2) estimated the factors for increased IL-6, and 3) clarified the prognostic role of high plasma levels of IL-6 in patients with CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9463170
To compare the relative use of verapamil and beta-blockers, which have shown comparable efficacy in reducing mortality and reinfarction rates in selected patients with myocardial infarction (MI), we retrospectively evaluated the ongoing treatment at the time of the pre-discharge evaluation in 221 consecutive patients (167 males and 54 females; mean age: 62.3 +/- 10.8 years) discharged alive in 1994 from our Hospital with the diagnosis of Q-wave MI.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9468004
It has been suggested that long term treatment with calcium antagonist drugs might inhibit platelet function and lead to an anti-atheromatous effect. However recent data have also suggested that such an effect might increase mortality due to an increased incidence of gastrointestinal bleeding. We identified 43 subjects from general practice with uncomplicated mild to moderate hypertension to compare the effects of the calcium antagonist isradipine with that of the beta-blocker atenolol on platelet function, plasma beta-thromboglobulin levels, fibrinolysis, and serum lipids in a randomised double-blind parallel group study. After careful evaluation to exclude concomitant aspirin use, only 24 subjects were eligible to enter the study. While isradipine and atenolol produced comparable and clinically significant falls in blood pressure (167 +/- 2/102 +/- 1 to 153 +/- 3/91 +/- 2 mm Hg, and 165 +/- 2/101 +/- 1 to 156 +/- 4/91 +/- 2 mm Hg, respectively), neither drug produced a detectable effect on ex vivo platelet aggregation, platelet retention, or thromboxane generation with adrenaline, collagen, adenosine-di-phosphate, or platelet activating factor. However a decrease in plasma beta-thromboglobulin levels was observed which reached statistical significance (P < 0.05) after 12 weeks treatment in the isradipine but not the atenolol group. A 39% reduction with isradipine compared with 34% following atenolol treatment. Euglobulin clot lysis time was not altered by either drug. Serum cholesterol concentrations were also unaltered by drug treatment. Therapeutic doses of the calcium antagonist isradipine may produce a minor indirect effect on platelet function after several weeks of treatment. However, this is of doubtful clinical importance and may simply reflect an effect of lowered blood pressure on platelet function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9468009
The efficacy and acceptability of nebivolol 5 mg and enalapril 10 mg, each given once daily, were compared in essential hypertension in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind trial over 3 months. For the index pre-declared variable, sitting diastolic pressure at trough drug level, nebivolol achieved greater falls in pressure (-12.3 vs -9.9 mmHg; P = 0.009) and a higher response rate (70% vs 55%; P = 0.002). The trough-to-peak sitting diastolic ratios also favoured nebivolol (84% vs 60%, P = 0.002). Nebivolol, but not enalapril, slightly but significantly lowered heart rate. Both drugs were well-tolerated, although enalapril was accompanied by a significantly higher incidence of coughing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9483388
In 21 pregnancies complicated by pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) which was treated by antihypertensive drugs (labetalol, nifedipine), fetal behavioural recordings (quiet state, C1F; active state, C2F; no coincidence, NOC) and Doppler measurements of blood flow velocity in the umbilical artery (UA) (resistance index, RI) were made on two occasions (27-32 and 33-36 weeks of gestation). Data were compared to those of a control group of normally grown fetuses (n = 96); in 15 cases we were able to match fetuses from the study group for age (+/- 1 week) and weight (+/- 150 g) at birth with fetales from a control group. It was the aim of this study to investigate if there are disturbances in the development of fetal behavioural states and if possible disturbances are due to poor fetal growth or to antihypertensive therapy. Our results show that in PIH treated by antihypertensive drugs, there are disturbances in the development of fetal behavioural states with higher percentages of NOC and C1F, lower percentages of C2F, and higher UA RI values. These disturbances are mainly due to coexisting placental impairment and poor fetal growth rather than to nifedipine or labetalol therapy, although these drugs may cause some redistribution of states.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9484356
We ascertained nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use in 2,651 participants in the UK MRC treatment trial of hypertension in older adults and measured change in cognitive function over the subsequent 54 months. There was a significant, although modest, association between change in the Paired Associate Learning Test score over time and NSAID use, which was modified by age. NSAID users showed less decline, with younger subjects seeming to benefit more than older. We found no relationship between NSAID use and time taken to complete the Trail Making Test and also no relationship between anti-indigestion drug use and either cognitive outcome. These analyses highlight the need for larger studies with prospective classification of NSAID use and adequate control of confounding, including exposure to other medications. A randomized controlled trial of NSAIDs, in those known to be at risk of cognitive decline or dementia, may be indicated in the future.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9489131
A prospective evaluation of the metabolic effects of Celiprolol, a third generation Beta-Blocking agent was done by 10 general practitioners in 45 mildly hypertensive patients. (diastolic blood pressure > or = 95 mm/Hg and < or = 115 mm/Hg. In 43 patients with complete data, blood pressure and resting heart rate decreased significantly after treatment, but weight and metabolic parameters were unchanged. After 6 months therapy the 22 patients with an impaired glucose tolerance test (IGTT) had a significant decrease in plasma glucose and insulin values, and a tendency for increased HDL. These favorable metabolic effects of Celiprolol in mildly hypertensive patients with an abnormal GTT are different from the findings with other beta-blockers and justify further study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9490238
Although the stratification of patients with myocardial infarction into ECG subsets based on the presence or absence of new Q waves has important clinical and prognostic utility, systematic evaluation of the impact of thrombolytic therapy on the subsequent development and prognosis of non-Q-wave infarction has been limited to date.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9493257
We discuss pragmatic clinical trials with survival endpoints in which subjects commonly change treatment during follow-up. Suppose that an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis shows a significant difference between the randomized groups. We may want to ask questions about the reason for such a difference in outcome between randomized groups: for example, was the difference due to different policies for change to a third more beneficial regime? We address such questions using the semi-parametric accelerated life models of Robins, which exploit the randomization assumption fully and avoid direct comparisons of possibly differently selected subgroups. No assumption is made about the relationship of treatment actually prescribed to prognosis. A sensitivity analysis, using a range of plausible values for the causal effect of a covariate, estimates the contrasts between randomized groups that would have been observed if the covariate had universally been 0. The main technical problem is in dealing with censoring, for the method requires different degrees of recensoring for different values of the causal effect, and this can lead to estimates of low precision. The methods are applied to a randomized comparison of two anti-hypertensive treatments in which approximately half the subjects changed treatment during follow-up. Various time-dependent covariates, representing patterns of side-effects and treatments, are used in the model. We find that the observed difference in cardiovascular deaths between the randomized groups cannot be explained in this way by their different covariate patterns.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9495662
The Captopril Prevention Project (CAPPP) is an ongoing intervention study conducted in 11,019 hypertensive patients in Sweden and Finland. Patients have been randomized to receive either conventional antihypertensive therapy (diuretics and/or beta-blockers) or captopril-based treatment. A prospective, randomized, open, blinded-endpoint evaluation (PROBE) study design is used to compare these two therapeutic regimens as regards cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The rationale for the CAPPP Study are the many observations of beneficial effects of ACE inhibition, as compared to diuretics and beta-blockers, on intermediary endpoints such as insulin sensitivity, serum lipoproteins, left ventricular hypertrophy and renal function. Captopril has also been shown to be markedly effective in the treatment of left ventricular dysfunction as well as congestive heart failure. The hypothesis is that these differences might result in improved risk reduction when ACE inhibitors are used in the treatment of hypertension. The present paper describes the baseline data and the changes in blood pressure during the first year in the total cohort. During the first year the average blood pressure was reduced by 11/8 mm Hg. A number of substudies have been conducted in the CAPPP Study. In one of these insulin sensitivity was compared in a subgroup of the patients using the euglycemic insulin clamp technique. In another substudy the ACE gene was sequenced and some new polymorphisms were discovered. Several other substudies are in progress or in the planning phase. The main results of the CAPPP Study should be available by mid-1998. Some of the intended anayses of the final results as well as other planned substudies are briefly described here.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9501808
Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a common cause of death which is preventable by elective repair of an asymptomatic AAA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9504355
A double-blind, randomised, parallel-group trial was conducted in patients with essential hypertension in British general practices, of nebivolol 5 mg, atenolol 50 mg, and placebo each given once daily. Both active drugs, in comparison with placebo, caused highly significant and similar reductions in systolic and diastolic pressures without orthostatic effect, and small significant falls in heart rate. Both active drugs were well tolerated, nebivolol marginally more so. Nebivolol, a long-acting, cardioselective, vasodilating beta-blocker which acts partly via the l-arginine/nitric oxide mechanism, appears potentially valuable for the treatment of hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9505927
To determine whether a third generation vasodilating beta blocker (celiprolol) has long term clinical advantages over metoprolol in patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9506320
The objectives of this study were to assess current practice patterns in pharmacotherapy for congestive heart failure at an academic medical center and to analyze temporal trends in management of congestive heart failure from 1990 to 1995. Records of all patients discharged from the hospital in 1990 or 1995 with a primary diagnosis of congestive heart failure who also underwent echocardiography were found by a search of the hospital's medical records database. All charts were reviewed, and relevant clinical data, including all discharge medications, were recorded. On the basis of echocardiograms, patients were classified as having preserved or impaired left ventricular systolic function (estimated ejection fraction > or =45% versus <45%). The use of digoxin, diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, calcium and beta-blockers, nitrates, and hydralazine in 1990 and 1995 were compared in subgroups according to left ventricular function. A total of 297 patients were identified who fulfilled study criteria and for whom all pertinent data were available (1990, n = 109; 1995, n = 188). The median age was 74 years; 37.3% of the patients were men, and 45.1% were white. Among patients with impaired systolic function, the proportion receiving either an ACE inhibitor or the combination of nitrates and hydralazine increased from 80.9% in 1990 to 95.4% in 1995 (p = 0.009). In addition, among patients treated with an ACE inhibitor, the proportion receiving an optimal dose increased from 24.3% in 1990 to 61.5% in 1995 (p < 0.001). The use of beta-blockers also increased significantly during this time period (2.1% versus 15.7%; p = 0.031 ). Among patients with preserved ventricular function, the use of ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers increased from 1990 to 1995 (both p < 0.05). The use of other medications did not change for either subgroup. Current use of appropriate vasodilator therapy at an academic medical center is very high and is in accordance with published guidelines for the management of congestive heart failure. The use of vasodilators and beta-blockers has increased significantly since 1990 among patients with congestive heart failure with either impaired or preserved left ventricular contractility.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9508155
Left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy is a common problem among elderly patients with isolated systolic hypertension (ISH), but the effect of treatment of ISH on LV mass is not known.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9512833
To evaluate whether physicians are prescribing antihypertensive drugs appropriately and according to the recommendations of the Canadian Hypertension Society.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9519501
This double-blind, randomised multicentre study compares nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) with atenolol in 129 male patients, with exercise-induced angina pectoris. At 4 weeks, there was no significant difference between nifedipine GITS 60 mg o.d. and atenolol 100 mg o.d., in respect of improved time to onset of 0.1 mV ST-segment depression, time to onset of pain, and total exercise time. Atenolol, but not nifedipine, significantly reduced heart rate and systolic blood pressure at rest and during exercise. There were significantly more vasodilator-related side effects with nifedipine. Nifedipine GITS and atenolol as once-daily monotherapy are equally effective and safe, but have different effects on exercise parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9524008
Beta-blockers reduce sympathetic tone, increase vagal tone and improve prognosis in ischaemic heart disease. Nitroglycerin, being a vasodilator, may theoretically have an opposite effect and worsen the prognosis. The purpose of the present study was to analyse heart rate variability (HRV), which reflects autonomic tone, in angina patients on isosorbide-5-mononitrate (IS-5-MN) and/or metoprolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9527092
In a study of 48 patients with coronary artery disease and evidence of ischemia during exercise and daily life, metoprolol reduced the threshold of myocardial ischemia in a dose-dependent manner. This effect of beta blockers is probably due to increased coronary tone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9531697
Twiddler's syndrome is a rare complication in patients with pacemakers. We report this very rare syndrome in a patient with pectoral implanted unipolar cardioverter defibrillator. This syndrome was detected because the patient presented in the 3 month routine visit an exitblock with an increased pacing impedance. The defibrillation threshold remained unchanged. The chest x-ray revealed an inferolaterally migrated generator with a multiply rotated lead. The intraoperative exploration showed a generator which was rotated nine-fold around its longitudinal axis with a multiple twisted unipolar lead. The lead was substituted and the aggregate fixed with a suture to the underlying muscle fascia. An atrophy of the pectoralis muscle was found in this patient which previously resulted from a long hospital stay. This atrophy was identified as a possible risk factor for the development of Twiddler's syndrome. This report illustrates that Twiddler's syndrome, a rare complication in patients with pectoral ICD, may become a significant problem in these patients as it is for pacemaker patients but with more serious possible consequences.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9532813
To study the safety and feasibility of dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography (DASE) in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9539469
Little is known about the value of heart rate variability in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease with a preserved left ventricular function. We hypothesized that in these patients heart rate variability might be a helpful adjunct to conventional parameters to predict clinical events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9540127
Arterial hypertension used to be the most common cause of congestive left ventricular failure. With the availability and common use of antihypertensive treatment the incidence and prevalence of hypertension-induced left ventricular failure has gradually declined. Today congestive heart failure due to underlying coronary heart disease is by far more common than the hypertension-induced variety. The effect of treatment of left ventricular failure in recent years, in particular with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and carvedilol, has been impressive.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9542820
In an observational study designed to determine whether metabolic changes during long-term antihypertensive drug treatment are associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD), 686 middle-aged hypertensive men recruited from a random population screening sample were followed up for 15 years. Antihypertensive treatment predominantly consisted of beta-adrenoceptor blockers and/or thiazide diuretics. CHD and diabetes mellitus were checked for at annual examinations. Time-dependent Cox regression analysis was used to determine correlation between the incidence of CHD and entry characteristics, the monitored serum levels of cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations and the development of diabetes mellitus. Univariate analysis showed the presence of diabetes mellitus a entry to the study and increased baseline serum concentrations of cholesterol and of triglycerides each to be a significant predictor of CHD, the respective relative risks (RR) being 2.12, 1.21 and 1.21. However, analysis of monitored levels of metabolic variables during follow-up showed only an increased serum cholesterol concentration to be significantly and independently associated with CHD (RR 1.07). Although serum triglyceride concentrations increased slightly during follow-up, they were unrelated to the incidence of CHD; nor was onset of diabetes mellitus during follow-up significantly associated with an increased risk of CHD (RR 1.48. Thus, the study showed the presence of metabolic disturbances such as diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidaemia before the start of antihypertensive treatment to be of positive predictive value in middle-aged hypertensive men, and an increase in the monitored serum cholesterol level to be an independent predictor of CHD, whereas neither drug-related diabetes nor an increase in the monitored serum triglyceride concentration seemed to be associated with the occurrence of CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9544865
The effects of two antihypertensive regimens (isradipine and hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride) on the ratio between media thickness and lumen diameter of subcutaneous arteries and on left ventricular mass in essential hypertension were compared. Fifty patients, aged 46.3+/-8 (mean+/-SD) years, with newly diagnosed or poorly controlled essential hypertension were randomized to treatment with either isradipine or hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride. Atenolol and hydralazine were added in both groups as secondary and tertiary drugs, respectively, when needed for normalization of diastolic blood pressure. A subcutaneous gluteal biopsy was taken surgically before medication and again after 9 months of successful antihypertensive treatment. Two small resistance arteries were isolated from each biopsy and mounted in a Mulvany-Halpem isometric small vessel myograph. The media thickness-to-lumen diameter ratio (percentage) of the vessels was measured under standardized conditions and meaned. Left ventricular mass (LVM) index was determined by echocardiography according to the Penn convention. Ten patients were treated with isradipine as monotherapy, whereas only one patient was well controlled on diuretics as monotherapy. Mean blood pressure was reduced equally with the two regimens, from 131+/-9 mm Hg to 101+/-10 mm Hg with the isradipine and from 128+/-9 mm Hg to 99+/-7 mm Hg with the thiazide/atenolol regimen. LVM decreased significantly in both groups by 130+/-75 g with the isradipine-based regimen and by 70+/-53 g with the hydrochlorothiazide/atenolol-based regimen. The reduction of LVM was significantly greater on the isradipine-based regimen than on the thiazide-based regimen (P < .01). There was a significant reduction of media thickness-to-lumen diameter ratio during treatment with the isradipine-based regimen from 10.9% to 8.8% (P < .01). The reduction in the thiazide regimen was from 9.7% to 8.5%, which was not significant (P = .07). The study demonstrated significant reduction of hypertensive changes in peripheral resistance artery structure during antihypertensive treatment with an isradipine-based regimen. The thiazide/betablocker-based regimen did not have a significant effect on the vessels. Significant reduction of LVM was achieved with both isradipine-based and thiazide/atenolol-based regimens. The reduction of LVM obtained with the isradipine-based regimen was significantly greater than that of the thiazide/atenolol-based regimen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9544866
The antihypertensive effects of four different antihypertensive medications (beta-blocking agent, atenolol 50 mg; calcium-antagonist, isradipine SRO [slow release] 2.5 mg; diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide [HCTZ] 25 mg; and angiotension converting enzyme-inhibitor, spirapril 6 mg) on obese patients with sleep disordered breathing and hypertension were compared by the ambulatory blood pressure measurement (ABPM). Eighteen patients were randomized in a double-blind, crossover fashion to receive each of the four different medications for 8 weeks. ABPM was performed at baseline and after an 8-week treatment with these medications. A 2- to 3-week washout period occurred both at baseline and between each of the four medications. Three patients were omitted from statistical analysis because of technical problems of ABPM. Atenolol, isradipine SRO, and spirapril decreased significantly (P < .01) the mean 24-h systolic blood pressure, whereas HCTZ did not. The mean 24-h diastolic blood pressure decreased significantly after all four medications: 12 (SD+/-14) mm Hg with atenolol, 7 (SD+/-10) mm Hg with isradipine SRO, 3 mm Hg (SD+/-14) with HCTZ, and 6 (SD+/-15) mm Hg with spirapril (P < .01). During nighttime none of the medications reduced the mean diastolic or systolic blood pressure significantly. According to the 24-h blood pressure curve the influence of these four medications during the whole measurement period was not similar. Atenolol and spirapril lost their antihypertensive effect during the early morning hours. The antihypertensive effect of HCTZ varied markedly from hour to hour. The trough-to-peak ratio of no medication was >0.50. Negative correlation was observed between the apnea time and the mean systolic 24-h (r = -0.604, P = NS) and the mean systolic nocturnal blood pressure change (r = -0.590, P = NS). Our study revealed that the daytime high blood pressure was quite easily controlled by the ordinary monotherapy in these patients with partial upper airway obstruction and hypertension. Instead none of the medications used decreased nocturnal high blood pressure markedly.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9545143
Although epidemiologic studies proved that a causal relationship exists between elevated serum cholesterol levels and coronary heart disease, it is only recently that cholesterol-lowering strategies have shown significant reductions in total mortality. In the last few years, three landmark coronary artery disease-reduction trials with HMG-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) showed significant reductions in coronary heart disease and mortality. Statins have beneficial effects on coronary heart disease and overall mortality in primary and secondary prevention, including in women and the elderly. Angiographic studies reveal the potential mechanisms through which statins exert their clinical benefits.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9547441
Nebivolol is a highly cardioselective long-acting beta-blocker with vasodilating properties, which acts in part via the endothelial L-arginine/nitric oxide pathway. As an antihypertensive drug it is effective in once-daily dosage. Nebivolol has previously been shown to improve left ventricular function in patients with cardiac impairment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9551875
In this multicenter, double-blind study, the antihypertensive efficacy and safety of irbesartan were compared with those of atenolol in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Following a 4- to 5-week placebo lead-in period, 231 patients with seated diastolic blood pressure (SeDBP) 95-110 mmHg were randomized to irbesartan 75 mg or atenolol 50 mg once daily for 24 weeks. Doses were doubled at Week 6 for SeDBP > or = 90 mmHg. At Week 12, or anytime thereafter, doses were doubled for SeDBP > or = 90 mmHg if not done at Week 6, and hydrochlorothiazide and then nifedipine were added. Efficacy was determined by change from baseline in blood pressure and by therapeutic response rates. Safety was assessed by monitoring adverse events (AEs). Both treatments significantly lowered blood pressure from baseline. There were no significant differences between treatment groups with respect to blood pressure changes or therapeutic response. Atenolol significantly reduced seated heart rate compared with irbesartan at Week 12. The incidences of serious AEs and discontinuations due to AEs were approximately twice as high in the atenolol group compared with the irbesartan group. Thus, in comparison to atenolol, irbesartan < or = 150 mg provided at least equivalent blood pressure control while demonstrating an excellent safety and tolerability profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9551876
The long-term efficacy and safety of once-daily treatment with doxazosin or atenolol were compared in a 5-year study in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. The study consisted of a 1-year, multicenter, double-blind, parallel-group phase, followed by a 4-year, open-label extension phase. Of the 228 patients enrolled, 100 patients (54/111 doxazosin and 46/117 atenolol) completed the 5-year study. Both treatments were similarly efficacious in controlling blood pressure. As assessed by the Framingham risk equation, which incorporates lipid parameter values, patients receiving doxazosin had significantly less chance of developing coronary heart disease (CHD) within 10 years compared with those patients receiving atenolol (p < 0.05). Doxazosin significantly (p=0.0005) reduced the mean CHD risk from baseline to final visit by 12.3%; whereas, atenolol produced essentially no change in mean risk (0.2% increase). In patients receiving doxazosin, statistically significant (p < 0.05) increases from baseline were observed in serum concentrations of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and the HDL/total cholesterol ratio during the first 2 and 3 years of treatment, respectively. In contrast, significant (p < 0.05) percent reductions from baseline in both these lipid parameters were seen in atenolol-treated patients during most of the 5-year trial. Between-group differences were statistically significant (p < 0.01) at all time points. Decreases in total cholesterol were similar between the two treatment groups. Triglycerides, however, significantly increased with atenolol treatment (p < 0.0001 vs baseline) while remaining essentially unchanged with doxazosin treatment. The safety profiles of doxazosin and atenolol were comparable. Thus, while demonstrating similar antihypertensive efficacy and safety during this 5-year study, once-daily treatment with doxazosin produced a significantly greater beneficial effect on both 10-year CHD risk and serum lipid parameters compared with atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9553680
The dose dependence of the antihypertensive effect of the beta 1 selective blocker talinolol (CAS 57460-41-0, Cordanum) was investigated in 97 essential hypertensive patients (mild to moderate) using the ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) in a single-centre, double-blind, randomized parallel-group study. After 4 weeks of treatment a comparison was made between the once daily administered doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg as well as with placebo. The primary parameter was the mean diastolic blood pressure between 8.00 and 22.00 (dTMW). Furthermore, the duration of action of the once daily administration of 200 mg talinolol was compared with the twice daily application of 100 mg each. With regard to dTMW an increasing antihypertensive effect was determined for the dosage step from 50 mg to 100 mg talinolol/d. No further increase in the blood pressure lowering effect was observed with 200 mg talinolol/d. The highest frequency of therapy responders was found in the 100 mg group with 72.2%. Moreover it could be demonstrated, that within the dosage range of 1 x 100-200 mg Talinolol/d a significant and 24 h lasting reduction of blood pressure and pulse rate was achieved, including the early morning period. There were no differences between the blood pressure profile of the 200 mg group and the 2 x 100 mg group at the end of the 4 weeks treatment. All talinolol dosages investigated in this study were proved to be safe and well tolerated. The observed complaints classified as adverse drug reactions represented typical side effects of beta-blockers of mild to moderate intensity. It can be concluded from the results that the once daily intake of talinolol in the dosage range of 100-200 mg/d shows a reliable efficacy in the treatment of essential hypertension accompanied by a noncritical safety profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9554680
Previous studies often of short duration have raised concerns that antihypertensive therapy with diuretics and beta-blockers adversely alters levels of other cardiovascular disease risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9557374
This study was aimed at investigating in chronic heart failure (CHF) the effects that beta-blockade with carvedilol may have on lung function, and their relationship with left ventricular (LV) performance and peak exercise oxygen uptake (VO2p). CHF causes disturbances in ventilation and pulmonary gas transfer (stress failure of alveolar-capillary membrane) that participate in limiting VO2p. Carvedilol improves LV function and not VO2p. Twenty-one NYHA functional class II-III patients were randomized (2 to 1) to carvedilol (25 mg bid., 14 patients) or placebo (7 patients) for 6 months. Rest forced expiratory volume (FEV1), vital capacity (VC), total lung capacity (TLC), carbon monoxide diffusing capacity (DLCO), its alveolar-capillary membrane component (DM), pulmonary venous and transmitral flows (for monitoring changes in LV end-diastolic pressure, EDP), LV diastolic (EDD) and systolic (ESD) dimensions, stroke volume (SV), ejection fraction (EF), fiber shortening velocity (VCF) were measured at baseline and at 3 and 6 months. VO2p, peak ratio of dead space to tidal volume (VD/VTp), ventilatory equivalent for CO2 production (VE/VCO2), VO2 at anaerobic threshold (VO2at) were also determined. FEV1, VC, TLC, DLCO, DM were impaired in CHF compared to 14 volunteers, and did not vary with treatment. Carvedilol reduced EDP, EDD, ESD, and increased EF, SV, VCF, without affecting VO2p, VO2at, VD/VTp, VE/VCO2, at 3 and 6 months. Placebo was ineffective. In CHF, carvedilol exerts neutral effects on ventilation and pulmonary gas transfer and ameliorates LV function at rest. This proves that antifailure treatment may not be similarly effective on cardiac and pulmonary function; and does not contradict the possibility that persistence of lung impairment may contribute to lack of improvement in exercise performance with carvedilol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9562008
The present study was designed to assess whether a diuretic- or an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-based treatment can reduce arterial wall hypertrophy of a distal muscular medium-sized artery--the radial artery--and the stiffness of a proximal large elastic artery--the common carotid artery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9562649
The negative inotropic effect of nearly all antiarrhythmic drugs, especially important in patients with impaired left ventricular function, represents a major drawback of medical therapy. The aim of this study is to evaluate the atrial and ventricular function and the exercise capacity in patients with mild heart failure treated with d,l-sotalol after electrical conversion of atrial fibrillation. The study included patients with persistent atrial fibrillation (for more than 2 weeks but less than 1 year) and mild heart failure (< or = class II NYHA). All patients had comparable basal echocardiographic findings, and received captopril. After successful cardioversion the patients were randomized in two groups: group 1 treated with sotalol (mean dose 240 mg q.d., max. 320 mg) and group 2--without sotalol. The drop-out criterion was the failure to maintain sinus rhythm. Finally, in the study remained 17 patients (10 men, 7 women, aged 41-60 years); group 1 included 10 patients and group 2-7 patients. They were assessed by quantitative echocardiography + Doppler and by standard ecg exercise test at less than 1 month but more than 2 weeks, and at 1, 3, and 6 months. When first evaluated (2 weeks-1 month), peak A wave velocity and atrial filling ratio were higher in group 2 than in group 1 (37 +/- 10 cm/s vs 20 +/- 5 cm/s and 23% +/- 7 vs 13% +/- 5, respectively) and group 1 had also a lower exercise tolerance (80 +/- 25 W vs 110 +/- 10 W). There were no significant differences between groups 1 and 2 in left atrial and left ventricular dimensions, ejection fraction and E wave deceleration time. After 1 month there were no significant differences in Doppler characteristics, echocardiographic parameters and exercise tolerance between the two groups. Group 1 remained at a lower heart rate and had a lower maximal double product (17250 mmHg/min vs 22100 mmHg/min) corresponding to a lower cardiac work. At 3 and 6 months there were no significant changes in all characteristics between the two groups. In conclusion, sotalol seems to be a well tolerated antiarrhythmic agent in patients with mild heart failure, after conversion of persistent atrial fibrillation. In this setting: 1. Sotalol could reversibly amplify the effect of atrial stunning after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation, but this effect is brief. 2. Sotalol has no relevant negative inotropic effect, at least not in association with captopril. 3. Sotalol improves the effort capacity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9563219
To study the effect of propranolol on portal hemodynamics in cirrhotics using duplex ultrasonography.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9567598
The antihypertensive drug therapy and the peri-operative plasma potassium trend in end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients undergoing renal transplant were analysed. Out of consecutive 107 live related donor renal transplant, complete data available for 74 patients between June 1991 and March 1993, were entered in proforma and analysed. On the basis of antihypertensive or no antihypertensive drugs prescribed, patients were grouped in 6 categories. Group I patients taking no antihypertensives were taken as control. All patients were comparable for their age, sex, weight, immunosuppressive therapy, anaesthetic and fluid management during surgery. At the time of induction of anaesthesia, patients taking atenolol (plasma K+ levels being 5.34 +/- 0.75 mmol/l in group II and 5.44 +/- 0.63 mmol/l in group III) or captopril (serum K+ level being 5.05 +/- 0.94 mmol/l in group V) in combination with nifedipine and with or without clonidine had significant hyperkalaemia than the patient without antihypertensives (serum K+ level being 4.49 +/- 0.71 mmol/l). Patients, on these two antihypertensives, frequently needed active treatment of alarming hyperkalaemia (blood K+ more than 5 mmol/l and tall 'T' wave in lead II) and cardiac arrhythmias. In conclusion, ESRD patients taking atenolol or captopril are needed to be frequently monitored for blood potassium levels and it would be advisable to avoid these drugs to control hypertension in ESRD patients, especially, when scheduled for renal transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9570492
Previous research has revealed that major depression is accompanied by disorders in excitatory amino acids, e.g. glutamate and aspartate, and alterations in serum levels of other amino acids, e.g. serine, glycine and taurine. The aim of the present study was to examine serum levels of aspartate, asparagine, glutamate, glutamine, serine, glycine, threonine, histidine, alanine, taurine and arginine in major depression patients with treatment-resistant depression (TRD). No significant differences in the serum concentrations of any of the above amino acids could be found between patients with and without TRD and normal controls. Non-responders to treatment with antidepressants during a period of 5 weeks were characterized by significantly lower serum levels of aspartate, asparagine, serine, threonine and taurine. A 5-week period of treatment with antidepressants significantly reduced the serum levels of aspartate, glutamate and taurine, and significantly increased the serum concentrations of glutamine. The results suggest that alterations in serum levels of aspartate, asparagine, serine, threonine and taurine may predict the subsequent response to treatment with antidepressants, and that the latter may modulate serum levels of excitatory amino acids and taurine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9571349
ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists may favorably affect serum lipids and glucose metabolism. The primary aim of the Fosinopril Versus Amlodipine Cardiovascular Events Randomized Trial (FACET) was to compare the effects of fosinopril and amlodipine on serum lipids and diabetes control in NIDDM patients with hypertension. Prospectively defined cardiovascular events were assessed as secondary outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9571355
To compare the effects of the ACE inhibitor perindopril and the beta-blocker carvedilol on blood pressure and endothelial functions in NIDDM patients with hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9575602
The prevalence and predisposing conditions for primary and secondary Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) were examined in The Framingham Study based on 16 years of follow-up of a cohort of 4182 men and women. The association with atypical chest pain and migraine headache was also investigated. Over the 16 years of follow-up there were 130 men and 171 women who developed primary RP. The prevalence in women (9.6%) was somewhat higher than in men (8.1%) and 81.4% of the RP was primary. Secondary RP was equally prevalent in men (18.6%) and women (19.7%). The most common causes of secondary RP were beta-blocker use (34.2%), carpal tunnel syndrome (10.5%) and rheumatoid arthritis (7.2%). Primary RP cases differed from noncases by having lower systolic blood pressure (p < or = 0.001) and diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.0001), and more coronary disease (p = 0.009), smoking (p < or = 0.01) and higher blood sugars (p < or = 0.009). Atypical chest pain was present more often than noted previously in The Framingham Study general population survey, and was equally prevalent in primary and secondary RP and in the two sexes. Associated migraine was more prevalent in women (14.4%) than men (5.0%). Vibrating tool use with associated RP occurred in 14.6%.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9581729
We sought to assess the effects of combined oral positive inotropic and beta-blocker therapy in patients with severe heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9585392
Diabetic patients have increased mortality following myocardial infarction. We review the evidence for benefit in diabetic patients, of the major drug groups used as secondary prevention. Beta blockers: meta-analyses suggest a reduction in mortality of 35% with beta blockers. Diabetic patients should receive beta blockers post myocardial infarction. In many patients, the benefits of beta blockers will outweigh relative contraindications. Aspirin: meta-analyses of antiplatelet therapy in high-risk subjects have shown substantial benefits. Aspirin should be prescribed for secondary prevention. Lipid lowering with statins: subgroup analyses of the major secondary prevention trials show substantial benefits across a wide range of baseline cholesterol and LDL levels. These drugs should be prescribed as secondary prevention to patients with diabetes whose total cholesterol is > 4.0 mmol(-1). Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs): the few subgroup analyses that exist from ACEI trials suggest that diabetic and non-diabetic patients derive similar benefits. Diabetic subjects who have systolic dysfunction after myocardial infarction should receive ACEIs. Treatment combination: data exist to suggest that most of these drugs produce benefit independently. Conclusion: diabetic patients benefit from secondary prevention with drug treatment as much as, or more than, non-diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9591892
Anginal patients who remain symptomatic despite optimally dosed beta blockade may also be given dihydropyridine calcium antagonists. This treatment regimen was examined in a double-blind parallel, randomized, controlled study in 147 patients with angina and positive bicycle exercise tests despite optimal beta blockade with atenolol (heart rate at rest <60 beats/min). Patients were randomized to atenolol and/or placebo (control), and atenolol and/or amlodipine. The main outcome measurement was exercise tolerance after 8 weeks compared with baseline. After 8 weeks, no significant differences in time to 0.1-mV ST-segment depression, time to chest pain, and time to end of exercise were observed. The number of patients with chest pain during exercise decreased significantly in the amlodipine group (p = 0.04 vs controls). The subgroup of patients with an early (<6 minutes) onset of chest pain at baseline showed a significant increase in time to chest pain after amlodipine (p = 0.0001 vs controls). In the amlodipine group, ST depression and rate-pressure product at submaximum comparable workload decreased to 0.4 mm (0.56) (p = 0.03 vs controls) and 1.223 (2.652) beats/ min x mm Hg (p = 0.01 vs controls). The number of patients in each group with adverse events was not different. The addition of amlodipine to the treatment of patients with myocardial ischemia, despite optimal beta blockade, is well tolerated and may lead to improvement in symptomatic anginal patients, who have a rapid onset of exercise-induced ischemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9591893
The antianginal efficacy and tolerability of amlodipine and diltiazem were compared in a double-blind randomized trial of 97 patients with angina resistant to atenolol alone. Both amlodipine and diltiazem significantly reduced the frequency of angina attacks (p <0.001) and glyceryl trinitrate consumption (p <0.05 to p <0.01). During Holter monitoring, both treatments reduced the overall frequency of ambulatory myocardial ischemia, although changes did not reach statistical significance. Exercise test parameters (total exercise time, time to angina, time to ST depression, and maximum ST depression) tended to improve with both treatments, but changes did not achieve statistical significance relative to baseline or to each other. Both drugs were generally well tolerated. Adverse events occurred in 15 patients in the amlodipine group (30%) and in 17 patients in the diltiazem group (36%), but patients taking diltiazem reported almost twice as many adverse events (30) patients taking amlodipine (18). Quality of life, as assessed by total Nottingham Health Profile Scores, was not significantly different between treatments. The addition of either once-daily amlodipine or twice-daily sustained release diltiazem improved symptoms in patients with angina resistant to atenolol alone, but diltiazem was associated with more frequent and more serious adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9591916
This study investigated the effects of carvedilol on right ventricular (RV) volume and systolic function in chronic heart failure patients. Carvedilol treatment resulted in a significant improvement of RV ejection fraction and systolic performance, which paralleled the improvement of systolic function demonstrated in the left ventricle.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9593066
The alpha-blockers prazosin and doxazosin reduce hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) and increase serum levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol, whereas beta-blockers such as atenolol have the opposite effect. As HTG is associated with reduced fibrinolysis and hypercoagulability, we investigated the effects of doxazosin and atenolol on serum lipids and hemostatic factors in hypertensive men with an atherothrombogenic risk profile. The study was randomized and open, but blinded to investigator of biochemical results. Forty-five men (mean age, 44.5 years) with central obesity [median body-mass index (BMI), 28 kg/m2] and moderate hypertension [median diastolic blood pressure (DBP), 104.5 mm Hg] were treated with atenolol (n = 22) or doxazosin (n = 23) for 22 weeks, after which changes in between-group differences from baseline were estimated. After intervention, significant between-group differences in favor of doxazosin were found: lower triglycerides (p = 0.008) and higher HDL cholesterol (p = 0.036); furthermore, improvement of fibrinolysis: lower plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) activity (p = 0.012), higher tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) activity after venous occlusion (VO); and higher levels of serum D-dimer, both unstimulated (p = 0.0016) and after VO (p = 0.0032). In addition, lower levels of serum testosterone were found in the atenolol group (p = 0.0016). A profile with reduced HTG, increased HDL cholesterol, and improved fibrinolysis was obtained with doxazosin when compared with atenolol. Furthermore, the observed decrease in serum testosterone on atenolol treatment would rather favor long-term treatment with doxazosin in this study population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9593558
In several observational studies, patients prescribed calcium channel blockers had higher risks of cardiovascular diseases and mortality than those prescribed other antihypertensive medications. We explored these associations in the Nurses' Health Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9595254
Outcome trials are the scientific method of determining if an antihypertensive agent really works; and for a therapy to work well, it should reduce mortality. The FDA requires only that blood pressure be controlled safely, but current evidence-based medicine demands answers to the mortality/morbidity question. We need this outcome trial information on all the classes of antihypertensives, including calcium channel blockers. For example, we often rely on surrogate endpoints such as control of blood pressure or control of PVCs. If we treat hypertensives with PVCs using beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers, we may see both control of blood pressure and suppression of PVCs. However, as we learned from the CAST trial with flecainide and encainide, PVCs can be controlled, but mortality may increase. On the other hand, the Lewis trial demonstrated that captopril, an ACE inhibitor, reduced proteinuria, which is another surrogate endpoint in diabetic hypertensives with nephropathy, although blood pressure was controlled with diuretic and conventional therapy. Importantly, captopril also reduced morbidity and mortality without influencing blood pressure. Unfortunately, there are no outcome trials measuring mortality endpoints for most of the antihypertensive agents in use today, especially in patients with uncomplicated hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9599555
As the human cardiomyocyte expresses both beta 1 and beta 2 adrenoceptors it is to be expected that the inhibition of one species of receptors can be counteracted by the other. This hypothesis was tested in 40 middle-aged men scheduled for coronary artery bypass surgery. Half the patients had been treated with cardioselective beta 1 antagonists for more than three months while the 20 control patients had never been beta-blocked. The haemodynamic status after induction of a standardized fentanyl/midazolam anaesthesia and the sensitivity of the cardiovascular beta-adrenoceptors to isoprenaline titration were similar in both groups. In conclusion, patients chronically treated with cardioselective beta 1-blockers compensate for the perturbation to such a degree that their cardiovascular function is indistinguishable from patients who have never received beta-blockers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9605783
The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) released a practice guideline on the diagnosis and management of unstable angina in 1994.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9607389
Human insulin receptor (hINR) number and its response to medical treatment was evaluated in 14 male controls and 40 male hypertensive patients. Twenty patients treated with fosinopril (10 to 20 mg daily orally) comprised Group A and 20 treated with atenolol (25 to 50 mg daily orally) Group B. The hINR number (receptors x 10(3)/red cell) was greater in controls compared to untreated patients (8.22+/-2.4 v 5.53+/-1.27, P < .001). After 6 months of treatment the hINR number increased in Group A (5.73+/-1.47 v 7.5+/-2.06, P < .001) and remained unchanged (5.35+/-1.09 v 5.5+/-1.31, P = NS) in Group B. Thus, hINR number is decreased in hypertension and, in contrast to atenolol, fosinopril treatment is associated with an increase in hINR number, suggesting a favorable effect on glucose metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9607690
The use of heart rate in clinical practice is limited by its variability under measurement situations. The mean heart rate on ambulatory monitoring provides a more robust statistic for clinical use. We examined the relationship between mean heart rate on initial referral ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) to the BP-lowering efficacy of the four main groups of anti-hypertensive medications, in a referral hypertensive population. Patients were retrospectively identified by review of the BP database, and data collected from the initial referral BP monitor off medication, and the subsequent ABPM after treatment with either beta-blockers, diuretics, calcium antagonists or angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. The change in mean arterial BP from the initial to the subsequent ABPM (ie, as a result of treatment) was correlated with the mean heart rate on the initial ABPM. A moderate association was found for initial daytime heart rate and BP response to beta-blockers (r = 0.24, P = 0.02), and ACE inhibitors (r = 0.14, P = 0.05). No such association was found for calcium antagonists or diuretics. When the groups were divided into those with a mean daytime heart rate <75 and > or =75 beats per min, BP reduction from beta-blocker and ACE inhibitor therapy was significantly greater in those patients with a higher daytime heart rate. We conclude that average daytime heart rate on pre-treatment ABPM can be useful as a predictor of BP response to beta-blockade or ACE inhibition.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9617599
Moexipril is a prodrug which is hydrolysed after oral administration to its active metabolite moexiprilat, an inhibitor of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE). Once daily administration of moexipril 7.5 or 15 mg effectively reduces blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension (including the elderly and postmenopausal women with this condition). In double-blind randomised comparative studies, moexipril 7.5 to 15 mg once daily showed similar efficacy to other antihypertensive agents, including captopril, hydrochlorothiazide, atenolol, metoprolol, sustained release verapamil and nitrendipine. Combined therapy with hydrochlorothiazide and moexipril had a significantly greater antihypertensive effect than either agent alone. Moexipril is well tolerated by the majority of patients and compares well in this respect with other antihypertensive agents. Its tolerability profile appears to be characteristic of ACE inhibitors as a class (the most common adverse events being headache, symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection and cough). Moexipril generally had no clinically significant effect on lipid, glucose or electrolyte metabolism or haematological parameters, and, in particular, it was not associated with any significant changes in lipid or glucose metabolism in postmenopausal women (with or without hormone replacement therapy).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9622282
Beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking agents are commonly used for treatment of hypertension, angina pectoris and arrhythmias and as secondary prevention after myocardial infarction. The modest protection against myocardial infarction conferred by these compounds in primary-preventive studies has suggested that beneficial effects of beta-blockade are counteracted by known adverse influences on lipid and glucose metabolism. As most beta-blockers increase plasma triglycerides and decrease the high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentration, a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study was conducted to evaluate whether a 12-week treatment with metoprolol (100 mg o.d.) or placebo affected the metabolism of postprandial triglyceride-rich lipoproteins in 15 middle-aged men with a modestly increased cardiovascular risk. Metoprolol treatment significantly increased the postprandial responses of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) and VLDL remnants to a mixed meal-type of oral fat tolerance test. The effect was particularly prominent for larger (Svedberg flotation rate (Sf) > 400 and Sf 60-400) particle species (P < 0.001 in repeated measures ANOVA), whereas the smaller (Sf 20-60) particles were less affected (P < 0.05). The changes in the postprandial responses of the different VLDL species were mainly related to an effect on the fasting plasma concentrations, with limited or no influences on VLDL catabolism during the postprandial state. In contrast, metoprolol treatment did not significantly influence the postprandial responses of chylomicrons and chylomicron remnants. Notably, the enhanced fasting and postprandial triglyceridaemia during metoprolol treatment was neither accompanied by a rise in fasting or postprandial free fatty acid concentrations, nor by alterations of the glucose and insulin responses to a standard oral glucose challenge. The ensuing shift in the LDL particle size distribution towards smaller particles was limited (fraction small LDL: metoprolol 22.8 +/- 15.7% versus placebo 19.3 +/- 15.0%, P < 0.05). In conclusion, metoprolol treatment primarily enhances fasting and postprandial triglyceridaemia in middle-aged men by increasing the basal hepatic production of VLDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9623012
Dilated cardiomyopathy is a common cause of heart failure with systolic dysfunction. Medications used to treat this condition are usually for symptomatic relief. We studied the effect of atenolol in heart failure caused by dilated cardiomyopathy in a double blinded randomized fashion. There were 17 males and 5 females. All patients underwent right and left heart catheterization, coronary angiography, endomyocardial biopsy, exercise testing and doppler echocardiography. By 3 months, atenolol significantly reduced resting and exercise heart rate and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. There was no difference in exercise capacity. We conclude from this study that atenolol improve hemodynamic condition in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy without improving exercise capacity during this short observation period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9626844
We sought to evaluate whether different circadian blood pressure (BP) changes could influence the occurrence of ischemic episodes in untreated and treated hypertensive patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9629401
Fourty-five migraine without aura patients underwent a parallel double-blind trial aiming the comparison of the effects of propranolol 60 mg/day to flunarizine 10 mg/day and to propranolol 60 mg/day plus flunarizine 10 mg/day simultaneously. There were 3 groups, each one with 15 patients. After a 20-day-baseline period, each group received one kind of treatment during 120 days. Migraine index on propranolol was 23.4*, on flunarizine 18.7* and on both drugs 14.4*, mean frequency of attacks on propranolol was 1.26**, on flunarizine 1.2** and on both drugs 1.13** (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01 compared to baseline) and global evaluation was reduced with all forms of treatment. It was not found statistical differences between groups, nevertheless there was a trend in the group using two drugs reaching lower values in migraine index, frequency of attacks and global evaluation. In individuals using flunarizine (alone or associated with propranolol) the therapeutic effect was largely maintained up to 45 days after drug withdrawal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9629648
We propose a group sequential method based on the sequential conditional probability ratio test and show that it has the conservatism desired in practice. We also propose calculating the discordant probability, that is, the probability that the sequential test concludes differently from a fixed-sample test at the planned end of the trial, recognizing that this probability could be substantial, even if the sequential test has the same size and power as the fixed-sample size test at the planned end of the study. In addition, we show that the proposed method can be used as a stochastic curtailing tool. Thus, the method accommodates unplanned interim analyses as well as those deemed necessary based on data trends, virtually without inflating the type I error, but it is less conservative than the usual stochastic curtailing. The method is implemented through an interactive computer program.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9630111
Patients with lower extremity arterial disease (LEAD) are at an increased risk of having coronary artery disease (CAD). Diabetics are at especially high risk for having LEAD with concomitant CAD. This study was undertaken (1) to define the clinical and arteriographic features associated with CAD among diabetics and nondiabetics with LEAD and (2) to determine the long-term survival and predictors of mortality of diabetics and nondiabetics with LEAD and CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9631978
The efficacy of the low-dose combination of bisoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide was compared with amlodipine and enalapril. The low-dose combination was found to be at least as effective as amlodipine and more effective than enalapril in both men and women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9631979
We report on the clinical and neurohumoral effects of adding low-dose propranolol to conventional therapy with digoxin and diuretics in 6 infants with severe congestive heart failure due to large left-to-right shunts. A significant decrease in heart failure scores and a decrease of the highly activated renin-angiotensin-1 aldosterone system by approximately 70% strongly suggests a beneficial effect of this new therapeutic approach.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9633797
Baseline heart rate is becoming recognized as a predictor of cardiovascular risk. Various antihypertensive drugs have differing effects on heart rate. A randomized controlled clinical trial of 1292 ambulatory men with stage 1 or 2 hypertension was conducted in 15 Veterans Affairs medical centers. Patients were treated with hydrochlorothiazide, atenolol, captopril, clonidine, diltiazem, prazosin, or placebo for up to 2 years. Heart rates were measured at baseline, the end of titration, 1 year, and 2 years. Data were also stratified by baseline heart rate. A subset of patients had heart rate also determined by electrocardiogram. All drugs except prazosin reduced heart rate from baseline; additional small decreases were obtained over time with hydrochlorothiazide and placebo. The decrease initially achieved with clonidine was attenuated over time. The overall reduction in heart rate was greatest for atenolol (-12.2 beats/min) and least for prazosin (+3.8 beats/min). Only atenolol effected a further reduction of heart rate for patients whose baseline rate was < or =65 beats/min. All drugs reduced heart rate when the baseline was > or =85 beats/min. Data derived by electrocardiogram yielded similar results. The drugs used in this study differ in their ability to reduce heart rate, sustain that reduction over time, and to change heart rate in groups with high or low rates at baseline. The importance of these comparative changes as independent cardiac risk factor variables remains to be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9633801
Resting hemodynamics were measured before, at 2 and 24 h after the first dose, and after 4 weeks of monotherapy with either metoprolol or carvedilol in a randomized single-blind study. We analyzed results from 24 hypertensive patients (30-68 years of age) with adequate blood-pressure lowering on monotherapy. Acutely, both drugs lowered systolic blood pressure and heart rate. Whereas metoprolol reduced cardiac output and increased both systemic and femoral artery resistance, carvedilol did not alter cardiac output but led to reductions in the systemic and regional resistances. After 4 weeks of therapy, cardiac output remained reduced and vascular resistances increased in the metoprolol group, whereas in carvedilol patients cardiac output continued to be unchanged and the trend for vascular resistances to be decreased persisted. Acutely and chronically the differences in the hemodynamic effects of the two medications were statistically significant. The study results indicate that carvedilol's vasodilatory action is not subject to tolerance development. Chronic afterload reduction associated with the decrease in systemic vascular resistance may lead to additional savings in myocardial oxygen consumption, a beneficial feature particularly in those patients with concomitant ischemic heart disease. It may also have a favorable influence on concentric cardiac hypertrophy and changes in the walls of arteriolar resistance vessels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9633802
The goal of this study was to compare the direct costs associated with the prescription of thiazide diuretics, beta-receptor blockers (beta-blockers), angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI), a-receptor blockers (alpha-blockers), and calcium channel blockers (CCB) for the prevention of stroke, myocardial infarction (MI) and premature death in uncomplicated hypertension. We performed a cost-minimization analysis based on numbers-needed-to-treat (NNT) derived from the metaanalysis of 15 major clinical trials of hypertension treatment, and the average wholesale prices of both the most commonly prescribed and the least expensive drugs in each class. The inclusion criteria for clinical trials were that they be randomized, controlled trials of drug therapy of uncomplicated mild-to-moderate hypertension with stroke, MI, or death as endpoints. The wholesale drug costs and the total direct outpatient treatment costs to prevent a stroke, MI or death among middle-aged and elderly hypertensives were our outcome measures. The estimated wholesale drug acquisition cost to prevent one major event (MI or stroke or death) ranged from $4730 to $346,236 among middle-aged patients, and from $1595 to $116,754 in the elderly; generic diuretic or beta-blocker therapy was more economical than treatment with an ACEI, alpha-blocker, or CCB. The associated 5-year NNT was 86 for middle-aged patients and 29 for elderly patients. Diuretic therapy remained more cost-effective even under the unlikely assumption that the newer drugs were 50% more effective than diuretics at preventing these major events. The costs associated with potassium supplementation did not eliminate the advantage of diuretics. Treatment costs to prevent major hypertensive complications are much lower with diuretics and beta-blockers than with ACEI, CCB, or alpha-blockers, especially in middle-aged patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9634263
To assess antihypertensive efficacy of beta-blockers and their effects on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and all-cause morbidity compared with diuretics in elderly patients with hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9639377
Atrial fibrillation (AF) has been shown to shorten the atrial effective refractory period (ERP) and make the atrium more vulnerable to AF. This study investigated the effect of atrial rate and antiarrhythmic drugs on ERP shortening induced by tachycardia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9643273
This study was designed to compare the effect of mibefradil, a selective T-type calcium channel antagonist, with the beta-blocker atenolol on regression of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9645829
It is expected that the treatment of hypertension in patients with renal disease decreases the risk of cardiovascular events, but the evidence in these patients is lacking.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9645897
The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of beta-blocker treatment on a large cohort of patients with coronary artery disease in functional classes II and III according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification. Among 11,575 patients with coronary artery disease screened for participation, but not included in the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention (BIP) study, 3,225 (28%) were in NYHA classes II and III. In the latter group of patients we compared the prognosis of 1,109 (34%) treated with beta blockers with 2,116 counterparts not receiving beta-blocker therapy. After a mean follow-up of 4 years, all-cause and cardiac mortality rates were significantly lower among beta-blocker users, 9% and 5%, respectively, than among beta-blocker nonusers, 17% and 11%, respectively (p <0.01 for both). After multivariate adjustment, treatment with beta blockers was associated with a lower all-cause mortality risk (hazards ratio [HR] 0.62, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.49 to 0.78), and a lower cardiac mortality risk (HR = 0.61, 95% CI 0.45 to 0.83) than was no treatment with a beta blocker. Lower total mortality risk was noted among patients in NYHA class II (HR 0.63, 95% CI 0.48 to 0.82) and in NYHA class III (HR 0.57, 95% CI 0.37 to 0.87) as well as in patients with (HR 0.62, 95% CI 0.48 to 0.81) or without (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.45 to 1.09) a previous myocardial infarction. We conclude that beta-blocker therapy in coronary patients in NYHA classes II or III is safe and associated with a lower risk for all-cause and cardiac mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9649466
The association of prazosin to propranolol enhances the decrease in portal pressure but may cause hypotension and sodium retention. The aim of this study was to compare the portal pressure reduction and safety of the combination of propranolol plus prazosin with that of propranolol plus isosorbide-5-mononitrate (ISMN).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9657539
Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) has been associated with insulin resistance, a condition with an impaired insulin-mediated vasodilation in skeletal muscle. ACE-inhibitors have been reported to be superior to most other antihypertensive drugs in inducing a regression of LVH. In a double-blind study with parallel groups, 50 patients with essential hypertension were randomized to treatment with either fosinopril (20 mg o.d.) or atenolol (50 mg o.d.) for 12-16 weeks. Left ventricle wall thickness (LVWT, defined as the sum of interventricular septum and posterior wall), diastolic function (represented by the ratio between the E-wave and the A-wave of mitral blood flow) and femoral artery blood flow (FBF) were evaluated using ultrasonic measurements. FBF was measured at normoinsulinemia and after 2 h of euglycemic hyperinsulinemia. Before treatment, the insulin-induced increase in FBF was inversely related to the LVWT (r = -0.52, p < 0.02). The reduction in ambulatory 24-h SBP/DBP was 13/9 mmHg for fosinopril and 15/14 for atenolol, ambulatory DBP being significantly more reduced by atenolol (p = 0.03 for difference in treatment effect). However, only fosinopril treatment resulted in a significant reduction in LVWT (from 20.5 mm to 19.4 mm, p < 0.05). The degree of reduction in LVWT was related to the increase in FBF in the fosinopril group (r = -0.45, p < 0.05). For fosinopril (but not for atenolol), there was a positive relationship between the change in E/A ratio and the change in femoral artery stroke volume (r = 0.80, p < 0.01). Conclusion: Impaired insulin-induced stimulation of leg blood flow was related to an increased LVWT. Furthermore, during fosinopril treatment, regression of LVWT was associated with enhanced skeletal muscle blood flow during hyperinsulinemia. This indicates that impaired peripheral blood flow (and thereby increased afterload) may be a possible mechanism explaining the previously found association between insulin resistance and cardiovascular hypertrophy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9657623
Cardiovascular parasympathetic activity is attenuated in essential hypertension. Both beta-adrenoceptor antagonists and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors have been reported to increase vagal modulation of heart rate and baroreflex sensitivity, but the relations between the antihypertensive and vagal cardiac effects of these drugs have remained unclear in essential hypertension. In the present study we evaluated the effects of a 4-week crossover monotherapy with metoprolol and ramipril on spectrum analysis indices of heart rate variability in the supine rest and head-up tilted positions, baroreflex sensitivity (phenylephrine method), and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure (BP) in 12 formerly untreated stage 1-2 essential hypertensive patients. Compared to the pretreatment values, both drugs decreased BP similarly and significantly. However, the drugs showed different effects on cardiac vagal activity: metoprolol increased significantly mean R-R interval, R-R interval total, and high-frequency variability at supine rest and baroreflex sensitivity, but ramipril did not significantly affect these variables. The metoprolol-induced decrease in ambulatory BP correlated with the prolongation of the R-R interval and the increase of high-frequency variability at supine rest. The present data show that 4-week treatment with metoprolol increases tonic and reflex vagal cardiac activity, whereas ramipril does not affect vagal cardiac control in essential hypertension. Increase in vagal activity may contribute to the BP-lowering effect of metoprolol in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9658386
We assessed the efficacy of sodium valproate as a prophylactic agent in migraine headache. A prospective randomized study was conducted in adult patients who previously derived no significant benefit from most conventional prophylactic therapy for migraine. Twenty-seven patients with a diagnosis of migraine with aura or migraine without aura from a headache clinic received low dose sodium valproate for 3 months. Response to therapy was defined as 50% or greater reduction in the frequency of headache. Plasma drug level monitoring helped to identify four noncompliers who were excluded from the study. Seventeen (71%) patients observed improvement within 4-6 weeks of medication and remained well for 12 weeks. They were further followed up for 12-24 months. Two patients for side effects and 1 for nondrug-related problems were withdrawn from follow-up study. Twelve patients (60%) maintained their response for 12 months or longer. Clinical improvement (percentage reduction in the frequency of migraine attacks) correlated inversely with the plasma drug levels at 13-24 months and daily dose of valproate, among the responders, suggestive of a possible therapeutic window. In other words, patients who do not respond to low dose valproate are unlikely to benefit from further increase in dosage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9660383
We sought to determine risk factors for stroke and stroke type in persons with isolated systolic hypertension (ISH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9660523
Antihypertensive therapy is indicated for reducing the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality that accompanies arterial hypertension. Usually, pharmacological treatment is started as monotherapy, which, if unsuccessful, is followed by sequential monotherapy, or by combination therapy. Recent data indicate that combination therapy is required in more than 50% of the hypertensive population when the goal is to reduce blood pressure to below 140/90 mm Hg. The choice and doses of drugs used in combination therapy should be such that their synergistic effect on blood pressure is maximized, the tolerability of the drugs is maintained and side-effects are minimized. The combination of a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist with a beta-blocker or an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor is one of the most commonly used combination therapies. Two randomized, double-blind, parallel-group studies compared the antihypertensive effects of the dihydropyridine, barnidipine, with the beta-blocker, atenolol (n = 247), and the ACE inhibitor, enalapril (n = 155). The efficacy and tolerability of barnidipine in combination with either atenolol or enalapril was also investigated. Monotherapy with barnidipine was as effective in reducing blood pressure as monotherapy with either atenolol or enalapril. Combining barnidipine with either atenolol or enalapril reduced blood pressure further, and significantly increased the percentage of patients attaining the required reduction in blood pressure. When patients whose blood pressure was not adequately controlled by enalapril monotherapy were switched to barnidipine monotherapy, the majority then achieved the desired reduction in blood pressure. These results indicate that if barnidipine monotherapy fails to lower blood pressure to the desired values, its combination with either a beta-blocker or an ACE inhibitor is effective and well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9663729
A decrease in portal flow is an important pharmacological effect of drugs used for the prophylaxis of variceal bleeding.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9663914
To assess the current levels of awareness, treatment and control of hypertension in England and to determine the number and type of drugs prescribed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9663926
Plasma renin concentrations are an important factor in cardiovascular risk profiling.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9665213
Although beta-blocker therapy for dilated or ischemic cardiomyopathy is now an accepted and effective treatment in adults, little is known about its efficacy in children.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9665894
To compare survival and cause specific mortality in hypertensive men with non-hypertensive men derived from the same random population, and to study mortality and morbidity from cardiovascular diseases in the hypertensive men in relation to effects on cardiovascular risk factors during 22-23 years of follow up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9669241
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9672774
Betablockers are very effective in patients with angina and angiographically smooth coronary arteries (syndrome X), but may exacerbate the state of insulin resistance that is known to be present in such patients. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of short-term treatment with atenolol on carbohydrate metabolism in syndrome X patients, as compared to normal subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9673599
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9675624
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that prolonged treatment of mild to moderate hypertension with low-dose thiazide diuretics or beta blockers does not induce any of the major untoward biochemical changes, such as hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, hyperuricemia and electrolyte imbalances. The effect of these drugs was analyzed in 100 outpatients (52 males and 48 females) aged 52.0 +/- 7.9 years with mild to moderate hypertension, in a prospective 6-month study. After an appropriate workup, the patients were randomized to either 25 mg chlorthalidone (40 patients), 120 mg propranolol (30 patients), or 2 mg per day bopindolol (30 patients). A significant reduction of approximately 10% in systolic and diastolic blood pressure was recorded in all the groups. At the end of the 6th month, in the chlorthalidone group triglycerides increased to 3.0 +/- 2.1 mmol/l from 2.8 +/- 1.6 mmol/l, while cholesterol after an initial increase to 6.6 +/- 1.6 from 6.4 +/- 1.6 mmol/l returned to the baseline level. Uricemia and serum potassium concentration decreased by 4%. The body weight was reduced to 83.8 +/- 13.4 kg from 86.1 +/- 13.4 kg. There was no change in serum glucose level. In the propranolol group, as expected, heart rate decreased by 20%, but there were no significant changes in glucose and potassium plasma concentration. Triglycerides did not change significantly, while cholesterol, after a small increase, returned to the initial levels. Similar results were obtained in the bopindolol group, apart from the triglycerides, which increased significantly (to 2.5 +/- 1.1 from 2.2 +/- 0.4 mmol/l), probably because of the lower baseline concentration. We conclude that in prolonged treatment, chlorthalidone, propranolol and bopindolol do not induce significant untoward biochemical changes that alone might increase cardiovascular risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9675959
Carvedilol has been shown to be effective in systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease, on maintenance hemodialysis. The aim of our study was to assess the effects of carvedilol on ventricular arrhythmias in these patients. Ninety-eight uremic patients maintained on hemodialysis, with complex ventricular arrhythmias (class III, IV and V of Lown's classification), not only during dialysis, were included in the study. They were divided into two groups, with mild-to-moderate hypertension or coronary artery disease. The efficacy and safety of carvedilol (50 mg/day) was compared to placebo in a 6-week randomized, double-blind study. Carvedilol significantly reduced, in both hypertensive and ischemic patients, total ventricular premature contractions (82.7 +/- 11.3 vs 358.1 +/- 73.9, p < 0.001; 88.3 +/- 24.4 vs 369.9 +/- 77.8, p < 0.001), repetitive ventricular premature contractions (1.3 +/- 1.3 vs 6.3 +/- 3.5, p < 0.001; 1.2 +/- 0.7 vs 6.9 +/- 2.6, p < 0.001) and episodes of ventricular tachycardia (1.1 +/- 1.2 vs 11.8 +/- 7.5, p < 0.001; 1.4 +/- 1.2 vs 14.0 +/- 8.3, p < 0.001). In placebo-treated patients, instead, these parameters were not significantly changed (329.1 +/- 76.5 vs 361.7 +/- 71.7, NS, and 324.6 +/- 79.7 vs 359.3 +/- 58.1, NS; 6.2 +/- 3.7 vs 7.3 +/- 3.7, NS, and 4.9 +/- 2.2 vs 6.1 +/- 3.2, NS; 9.8 +/- 6.3 vs 13.3 +/- 8.0, NS, and 9.0 +/- 6.2 vs 12.4 +/- 7.8, NS). Carvedilol confirmed a significant effect on myocardial ischemia and systemic hypertension. No significant side effects were reported. Ventricular arrhythmias are frequent in patients with end-stage renal disease maintained on hemodialysis. They are often due to an underlying cardiac disease, namely systemic hypertension with left ventricular hypertrophy and coronary artery disease. The results of our study show that the antiarrhythmic effect of carvedilol is linked, at least partly, to an improvement of the underlying cardiac disease. Uremic patients have a chronic increase in adrenergic tone, with a direct correlation between norepinephrine plasmatic concentration and frequence of premature ventricular contractions. Beta-blockers are very important in these patients because of their modulation on the adrenergic system. They also reduce potassium flow, from extracellular to intracellular fluid. Therefore carvedilol can affect the sudden hypokalemia occurring in the first phase of hemodialysis treatment, that may be an important cause of intradialytic arrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9679720
Cardiac effects of hypertension include increased left ventricular (LV) mass and LV hypertrophy, as well as increased left atrial size, a predictor of stroke and atrial fibrillation. Although literature on reduction of LV mass with antihypertensive therapy is extensive, little information is available on effects of treatment on left atrial size.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9683206
Previous studies have reported an increased risk of cancer with calcium-channel blockers in man. Other work in animals suggests that inhibitors of angiotensin-I-converting enzyme (ACE) protect against cancer. We aimed to assess the risk of cancer in hypertensive patients receiving ACE inhibitors or other antihypertensive drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9683312
The Controlled ONset Verapamil INvestigation of Cardiovascular Endpoints (CONVINCE) Trial is a randomized, prospective, double-blind, parallel-group, two-arm, actively controlled, multicenter, international 5-year clinical trial involving 15,000 patients. CONVINCE will compare the incidence of fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI), fatal or nonfatal stroke, or cardiovascular-disease-related death in two antihypertensive treatment regimens. One treatment arm begins with controlled onset-extended release (COER)-verapamil, which has its major antihypertensive effect 6-12 hours after administration. The other arm (standard of care (SOC)) begins with either hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) or atenolol, one of which is preselected by the investigator for an individual patient prior to randomization. Secondary objectives include comparisons of the regimens for each of the components of the primary endpoint (separately), death or hospitalization related to cardiovascular disease, efficacy in lowering blood pressure to goal, primary events occurring between 6 am and noon, all-cause mortality, withdrawals from blinded therapy, cancer, and hospitalizations due to bleeding. Patients may be enrolled if they are hypertensive and at least 55 years of age and have an established second risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Initial medications include COER-verapamil (180 mg/d), HCTZ (12.5 mg/d), or atenolol (50 mg/d). Initial doses are doubled if blood pressure (BP) does not reach goal (systolic BP < 140 mm and diastolic BP < 90 mm Hg). If BP is not controlled by the higher dose of the initial medication, HCTZ is added to COER-verapamil, or the SOC choice not initially selected is added in the SOC arm. An ACE-inhibitor is recommended (although nearly any open-label medication is allowed) as the third step for patients whose BP is not adequately controlled or who have a contraindication to one of the two SOC medications. Patients take two sets of tablets daily, one in the morning and one in the evening. Although most patients switch from an established antihypertensive medication to randomized treatment, untreated patients with stages I-III hypertension (SBP between 140 and 190 or DBP between 90 and 110 mm Hg) are eligible. Outcomes are monitored by an independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board. Enrollment began during the third quarter of 1996, and follow-up is to be completed in the third quarter of 2002.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9700441
Esophageal varices are a life threatening cause of gastrointestinal bleeding. Management includes both primary prevention of variceal bleeding and treatment of actively bleeding varices. Evidence from randomized controlled trials indicates that beta blockers and nitrates may prevent the initial episode of bleeding varices. Ample data from randomized controlled trials indicate that band ligation is more effective than scleropathy for the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices. Somatostatin may decrease rebleeding rates with or without endoscopic therapy. No effective treatment has been developed for the treatment of patients who fail endoscopic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9700713
The aim of this study was to evaluate changes in cerebral hemodynamics in young patients with uncomplicated hypertension before and after effective antihypertensive treatment with a beta-blocker drug. Changes in mean flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery from normal condition to hypercapnia were evaluated by means of a transcranial Doppler in 42 hypertensive patients and 21 healthy subjects comparable for age and sex distribution. We obtained hypercapnia with breath-holding and evaluated cerebrovascular reactivity with the breath-holding index (BHI). After a baseline evaluation (time 0), patients were randomly assigned to a placebo (group 1) or atenolol (group 2) therapy. The evaluation was repeated after 30 (time 1) and 60 (time 2) days of treatment. Before treatment, hypertensive patients had significantly lower BHI values (0.96 +/- 0.1 group 1 and 0.85 +/- 0.3 group 2) than controls (1.69 +/- 0.4) (P < 0.0001). During treatment, mean blood pressure significantly decreased in group 2 patients. In the same group, BHI values significantly increased with respect to the pre-treatment evaluation: 1.39 +/- 0.2 at time 1 and 1.44 +/- 0.2 at time 2 (P < 0.0001). On the contrary, mean blood pressure and BHI values remained unchanged in the placebo group. Furthermore, BHI values were significantly higher in group 2 than in group 1 patients at times 1 (P < 0.001) and 2 (P < 0.0001). These findings suggest that hypertension causes reduced capability of cerebral vessels to adapt to functional changes. This condition, which is reversible after treatment, could be implicated in the increased susceptibility to ischemic stroke in hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9702620
To examine the acute hemodynamic effects of intravenous (i.v.) nicardipine and its ability to attenuate the hyperdynamic response to electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), when used alone or in combination with labetalol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9702935
The SILVER (Study of Irbesartan in Left VEntricular hypertrophy Regression) trial is designed to test the hypothesis that the newly developed angiontensin-II receptor antagonist, irbesartan, will produce a greater reduction in left ventricular (LV) mass than felodipine ER, in a population of hypertensive patients defined by seated diastolic blood pressure (SeDBP) in the range 95-115 mmHg or seated systolic blood pressure (SeSBP) in the range 160-200 mm Hg. A population of 360 men and women of non-childbearing potential, >18 years of age, with hypertension, newly diagnosed or after a 3-week washout from previous anti-hypertensive or vasodilator therapies, will be randomised at approximately 80-90 European sites. Add-on therapy with hydrochlorothiazide and atenolol will be allowed for blood pressure control. Patients will be studied by two-dimensional and M-mode echocardiography at baseline (central validation of LV hypertrophy), on randomisation day, and after 6 and 12 months randomised therapy. Blinded analysis of echocardiograms will be performed at a central laboratory, which will provide measurements of the LV mass index (LVMI), determined by M-mode readings according to Devereux formula and using the Penn convention. The primary end-point of the study will be the change in LVMI from baseline to 12 months. The study power is 90% to detect differences between groups from baseline of approximately 8 g/m2.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9707705
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9710178
Despite the significant reduction in cardiovascular mortality during the past three decades, atherosclerotic coronary heart disease (CHD) remains the leading cause of death and disability in the United States. Randomized clinical trials in patients with CHD have provided convincing evidence that risk factor modification is beneficial in decreasing all-cause mortality and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Multifactorial coronary risk reduction provides the most substantial benefit. Coronary risk reduction is associated with a decrease in cardiovascular-related hospital admissions, a reduced need for myocardial revascularization procedures, and an improved quality of life for the patients so treated. Control of coronary risk factors is an integral component of the optimal care of the patient with CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9715821
The use of beta-blocker therapy in heart failure was contraindicated for many years because it was considered to block necessary sympathetic compensatory responses to reduced cardiac function. However, early studies provided promising results in terms of improved symptoms and work capacity and reduced heart size. Small-scale studies have been completed over the past 20 years but until large-scale, long-term, randomized trials were conducted, the potential of beta-blockers in heart failure was not confirmed. The results of randomized trials published to date have included over 3,000 patients and the results show improvements in left ventricular function and heart rate. Significant improvements in New York Heart Association classification were also shown. Although no conclusive effect on mortality was shown, the first Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study (CIBIS) indicated a trend toward improved survival during long-term treatment with bisoprolol. Ongoing studies have been specifically designed to investigate the effects of beta-blockers on survival. One of these trials, CIBIS II, which was terminated early in 1998 because of a positive effect on survival, is expected to report in late summer 1998. Such trials will also examine the different mechanisms of action of beta-blockers in heart failure and the influence of causes on the effects of beta-blockade.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9715823
In controlled trials, long-term treatment of patients with chronic heart failure with beta-blockers improves symptoms, slows progression of disease, and reduces morbidity and mortality rates. However, in some patients the introduction of therapy can be associated with a period of clinical instability, including risks of fluid retention, hypotension, and bradycardia. Appropriate patient selection and optimization of background therapy can minimize the risk during the introduction of therapy. With vigilance for early signs of clinical deterioration and appropriate adjustment of background medications, the care of most patients exhibiting clinical instability can be successfully managed so the patient is able to continue with the long-term therapy, a prerequisite to realizing beneficial effects. With the initiation of carvedilol, any evidence of fluid retention warrants a prompt increase in the diuretic dosage, and in more pronounced cases the carvedilol dose may need to be reduced or interrupted. In contrast, symptoms of hypotension (most commonly dizziness) generally resolve without intervention, although persistent problems may necessitate adjusting the timing of dose administration or perhaps temporarily reducing the dose of vasodilators or diuretics (the latter with care to avoid fluid retention). Bradycardia should be managed as standard practice would indicate. During long-term treatment, adjustments in beta-blocker dosage may be required in the event of an exacerbation of heart failure. Dosages should be adjusted as would be the case with other heart-failure medications, based on the severity of the clinical decompensation, but with care to minimize abrupt changes unless mandated by the patient's condition and to avoid precipitating ischemia or further deterioration. The occurrence of effects such as these does not necessarily indicate that a patient cannot respond favorably to long-term beta-blockade, but all require understanding, vigilance, and the availability of medical personnel, especially during the introduction of this therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9717036
A variety of vascular effects have been ascribed to 17 beta-oestradiol. These effects may partially explain the reduced incidence of cardiovascular disease found in post-menopausal women on oestrogen replacement therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9720548
We compare the tolerability and blood pressure effects of 0.4 mg. tamsulosin once daily in patients with lower urinary symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic obstruction with or without concomitant disease and/or antihypertensive medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9731558
Physical exercise increases portal pressure (hepatic venous pressure gradient [HVPG]) in patients with cirrhosis. It is unknown if this deleterious effect is associated with changes in gastroesophageal collateral blood flow and if these can be prevented by propranolol administration. The aim of this study was to characterize the effects of propranolol on the splanchnic hemodynamic response to exercise in patients with cirrhosis. Twenty-three patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension had hemodynamic measurements in baseline conditions, and during moderate cycling exercise (40 W) under double-blind propranolol or placebo administration. In patients receiving placebo, HVPG significantly increased during exercise (from 16.7 +/- 0.9 to 19.0 +/- 1.0 mm Hg; P < .01), hepatic blood flow (HBF) decreased (-18% +/- 4%; P < .01), while azygos blood flow (AzBF) was unchanged (4% +/- 12%; ns). In patients receiving propranolol, portal pressure did not increase during exercise, but decreased from 16.3 +/- 1.0 to 12.9 +/- 1.1 mm Hg (P < .01). The lack of increase in HVPG in response to exercise in patients receiving propranolol may be related to a more pronounced decrease in HBF, as compared with patients receiving placebo, and to a blunted increase in cardiac output (CO). Moderate physical exercise adversely influences the hepatic hemodynamics in patients with cirrhosis, causing a significant increase in portal pressure. This is effectively prevented by propranolol pretreatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9732337
To determine whether tight control of blood pressure prevents macrovascular and microvascular complications in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9732338
To determine whether tight control of blood pressure with either a beta blocker or an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor has a specific advantage or disadvantage in preventing the macrovascular and microvascular complications of type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9732339
To estimate the economic efficiency of tight blood pressure control, with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or beta blockers, compared with less tight control in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9734114
The aim of the present study was to investigate the incidence of adverse effects and the prognostic value of various risk factors in a large population of unselected hypertensive patients treated with the ACE inhibitor trandolapril. Among the 30 072 patients investigated in this post marketing retrospective study, 1813 patients (6.0 per cent) reported an adverse effect. The five most frequent side effects were coughing (3.1 per cent), dizziness (0.7 per cent), headache (0.6 per cent) asthenia (0.5 per cent) and nausea (0.3 per cent). Intolerance risk factors for trandolapril were researched using both univariate and multivariate analysis. In the univariate analysis, a prior intolerance of an ACE inhibitor and female gender were strongly correlated with either overall intolerance or coughing. The most relevant variables for the occurrence of adverse effects, listed according to their entry order in the multivariate analysis, were: prior intolerance of ACE inhibitors (OR: 4.19, 95 per cent CI: 3.66-4.78), female gender (OR: 1.46, 95 per cent CI: 1.31-1.63), prior intolerance of other antihpertensive agents (OR: 1.27, 95 per cent CI: 1.14-1.41), smoking (OR: 0.76, 95 per cent CI: 0.66-0.87) and combination with a beta blocker (OR: 1.31, 95 per cent CI: 1.08-1.58). A prior intolerance of an ACE inhibitor appears to be a very strong predictor of coughing (OR: 6.14, 95 per cent CI: 5.24-7.19). The following variables, namely female gender (OR: 1.61, 95 per cent CI: 1.40-1.85), age 60-80 (OR: 1.25, 95 per cent CI: 1.09-1.44) and prior intolerance of other antihypertensive agents (OR: 1.20, 95 per cent CI: 1.03-2.39) appear less significant.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9737492
To determine whether a fictitious manuscript into which purposeful errors were placed could be used as an instrument to evaluate peer reviewer performance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9738164
To evaluate the effect of beta-blockers on mortality and morbidity, and to provide an appraisal of the reliability of the available data.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9741499
The purpose of this study was to determine if early triage angiography with revascularization, if indicated, favorably affects clinical outcomes in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction who are ineligible for thrombolysis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9741504
We assessed the use and effects of acute intravenous and later oral atenolol treatment in a prospectively planned post hoc analysis of the GUSTO-I dataset.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9743424
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9743509
beta-Blockers have improved symptoms and reduced the risk of cardiovascular events in studies of patients with heart failure, but it is unclear which end points are most sensitive to the therapeutic effects of these drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9750252
Lan and DeMets (1983, Biometrika 70, 659-663) proposed a flexible method for monitoring accumulating data that does not require the number and times of analyses to be specified in advance yet maintains an overall Type I error, alpha. Their method amounts to discretizing a preselected continuous boundary by clumping the density of the boundary crossing time at discrete analysis times and calculating the resultant discrete-time boundary values. In this framework, the cumulative distribution function of the continuous-time stopping rule is used as an alpha spending function. A key assumption that underlies this method is that future analysis times are not chosen on the basis of the current value of the statistic. However, clinical trials may be monitored more frequently when they are close to crossing the boundary. In this situation, the corresponding continuous-time boundary should be used. Here we demonstrate how to construct a continuous stopping boundary from an alpha spending function. This capability is useful in the design of clinical trials. We use the Beta-Blocker Heart Attack Trial (BHAT) and AIDS Clinical Trials Group protocol 021 for illustration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9755356
It has become common clinical practice to combine the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors with other serotonergic agents for augmentation or adjunctive purposes. The empirical basis for using these combinations remains limited, but is growing. Also growing is a literature that suggests that even the most apparently benign combinations of serotonergic drugs carry at least some risk of serious pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic drug interactions, such as a serotonin syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9759992
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of valsartan, a new angiotensin II receptor antagonist, versus atenolol in the treatment of severe primary hypertension. A total of 103 adult out-patients were randomised to receive either valsartan 160 mg or atenolol 100 mg once daily for 6 weeks. If necessary, additional blood pressure (BP) control could be provided as add-on therapy. Both valsartan and atenolol decreased mean sitting diastolic BP (DBP) and mean sitting systolic BP (SBP): least squares mean change from baseline in DBP; valsartan, -20.0 mm Hg; atenolol, -20.4 mm Hg: in SBP; valsartan, -30.0 mm Hg; atenolol, -25.5 mm Hg. There was no statistically significant difference between the treatment groups. Add-on hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 25 mg was required by 97.2% of patients receiving atenolol and 83.6% of patients receiving valsartan; additional verapamil SR 240 mg was also required by 58.3% of patients receiving atenolol and 64.2% receiving valsartan. Valsartan was well tolerated, with a comparable incidence of treatment-related adverse experiences in both groups. In conclusion valsartan 160 mg is as well tolerated and effective as atenolol 100 mg in lowering BP in severely hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9761084
The purpose of this prospective study was to evaluate, on an intention-to-treat basis, the efficacy of d,l-sotalol and metoprolol with regards to the recurrence of arrhythmic events after implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) implantation. After ICD implantation, 70 patients were randomly assigned to treatment with either metoprolol (mean dosage 104+/-37 mg/day in 35 patients) or d,l-sotalol (mean dosage 242+/-109 mg/day in 35 patients). During follow up ventricular tachycardia (VT), fast VT, and ventricular fibrillation (VF) episodes were calculated. Metoprolol treatment led to a marked reduction in the recurrence of arrhythmic events. Actuarial rates for absence of VT recurrence at 1 and 2 years were significantly higher in the metoprolol group compared with the d,l-sotalol group (83% and 80% vs 57% and 51%, respectively, p=0.016). The actuarial rates for absence of fast VT or VF were 80% in the metoprolol group compared with 46% in the d,l-sotalol group (p=0.002). During a follow up of 26+/-16 months, there were 3 deaths in the metoprolol group compared with 6 deaths in the d,l-sotalol group. Actuarial rates of overall survival were not significantly different in the 2 groups (91% vs 83%, p=0.287). In this prospective, randomized, controlled study the recurrence rate of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in patients treated with metoprolol was lower than in patients treated by d,l-sotolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9762290
Acute bleeding from esophageal varices is a major complication of cirrhosis. Despite the large number of published studies no predictive factors of control of bleeding have been identified. We assessed the clinical and biological factors predictive of bleeding control within the first 2 weeks after a bleeding episode in a homogeneous group of patients enrolled in a large multicenter trial, who underwent a standardized emergency sclerotherapy session.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9764058
To examine the effect of concomitant intake of beta blockers with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, diuretics, or both on plasma renin concentrations in a population based sample (MONICA survey, Augsburg, Germany).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9777817
Renin profiling and age-race subgroup may help select single-drug therapy for stage 1 and stage 2 hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9783498
The aim of the study was to examine the hypotensive efficacy and tolerance of bisoprolol in elderly patients. Sixty patients (40 <65 years and 20 >65 years) with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension (diastolic blood pressure (DBP) between 95 and 109 mm Hg) were included in the study. After a 2-week run-in period on placebo, patients began bisoprolol therapy (5 mg/d) for 12 weeks. After 4 weeks the dose was increased to 10 mg/d in those with a DBP > or =95 mm Hg. Additionally, in 10 patients over 65 years old, 24-h ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) was performed, after placebo and after bisoprolol (5 mg) administration. The hypotensive efficacy of bisoprolol in the elderly and younger patients was similar. Before and after treatment the mean difference of systolic BP (SBP) was 19.6 +/- 12.5 mm Hg and DBP 9.6 +/- 6.2 mm Hg in the younger patients and 16.1 +/- 13.6 mmHg and 9.5 +/- 6.0 mmHg in the elderly patients. Bisoprolol produced a similar reduction in heart rate (23.1% vs 17.1%) in the estimated groups. The tolerance of bisoprolol was good in both groups. There were no significant differences in adverse drug reactions between the groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9789703
Even today, heart failure due to doxorubicin-induced dilated cardiomyopathy seems to have a poor prognosis, as it is often irreversible and relatively unresponsive to standard medical treatment. This paper describes the first case of a patient complaining of severe symptoms of congestive heart failure due to doxorubicin-induced dilated cardiomyopathy unresponsive to standard medical treatment (digoxin, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor), who showed complete clinical recovery and significant improvement of left ventricular dysfunction after carvedilol treatment. It also illustrates the possibility that carvedilol may be a first-choice drug for the treatment of this disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9791144
Angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors not only decrease the production of angiotensin II but also decrease the degradation of bradykinin. In this study, a specific bradykinin-receptor antagonist, icatibant acetate (HOE 140), was used to determine the contribution of bradykinin to the short-term effects of ACE inhibition on blood pressure and plasma renin activity in both normotensive and hypertensive subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9794346
Carvedilol is a nonselective beta-receptor antagonist with vasodilating properties primarily due to selective alpha-1 antagonism. This 4-treatment, 5-period, double-blind, crossover study evaluated the efficacy and safety of 3 doses of carvedilol (12.5, 25, and 50 mg given twice daily) versus placebo in 122 patients with chronic stable angina. Carvedilol in doses of 25 mg twice daily and 50 mg twice daily was statistically superior to placebo with respect to time to angina (placebo: 316 seconds; 25 mg carvedilol: 337 seconds, p = 0.0039; 50 mg: 345 seconds, p <0.0001) and time to 1-mm ST-segment depression (placebo: 301 seconds; 25 mg: 313 seconds; 50 mg: 323 seconds; p <0.0001). The percentage of patients reporting any adverse experience was slightly less in those receiving placebo (placebo: 28.4%; 12.5 mg: 33.1%; 25 mg: 34.5%; 50 mg: 31.9%). Carvedilol is effective and safe in treating patients with chronic stable angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9794735
The possibility that calcium antagonists exert an anti-atherosclerotic action at least partly independently of the blood-pressure-lowering effect is supported by results of a large number of experimental studies and can now be investigated by quantitative B-mode ultrasound imagining of the carotid artery walls.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9799042
To evaluate the effect of antihypertensive treatment on sexual activity, 90 hypertensive men, aged 40 to 49 years, all married and without history of sexual dysfunction were treated with 100 mg of atenolol or 20 mg of lisinopril for 16 weeks, according to a double-blind, randomized, cross-over design. During the first month of therapy, sexual activity, assessed as number of sexual intercourse episodes per month, significantly declined with both atenolol (from 7.8 +/- 4.3 to 4.5 +/- 2.8, P < .01 v placebo) and lisinopril (from 7.1 +/- 4.0 to 5.0 +/- 2.5, P < .05 v placebo). Ongoing with the treatment, sexual activity tended toward recovery in the lisinopril (7.7 +/- 4.0 sexual intercourse episodes per month, P = NS v placebo), but not in the atenolol group (4.2 +/- 2.8, P < .01 v placebo), with a statistically significant difference between the two drugs (P < .01). The percentage of patients who complained of sexual dysfunction symptoms was significantly higher in the atenolol- than in the lisinopril-treated group (17% v 3%, P < .05). These findings suggest that atenolol induces a chronic worsening of sexual activity, whereas lisinopril causes only a temporary decline.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9803188
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9803197
The sixth report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC-VI) provides updated guidelines for the treatment of hypertension. Antihypertensive drug therapy may be initiated either after a trial of lifestyle modifications or immediately after the diagnosis is made, depending on the patient's other cardiovascular risk factors and the presence of clinical cardiovascular disease. In general, therapy may begin with diuretics or beta-adrenergic blockers in patients under age 65, unless a concomitant condition warrants another, more tailored choice. Low dosages should be used initially, but if the blood pressure is not successfully reduced to 140/90 mm Hg or below, another drug should be added or should replace the initial choice. General principles of therapy include the use of once-a-day formulations and combination drugs as well as cost considerations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9808602
Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) represents an independent risk factor in patients with essential hypertension. Because reversal of LVH may be associated with an improvement of prognosis, the influence of new antihypertensive compounds, such as angiotensin II AT1 receptor antagonists, on LVH should be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9809921
Clinical trials in heart failure (HF) tend to randomize patients according to demographic characteristics and severity of left ventricular dysfunction, without taking account of the precise diagnosis. This article reviews results from recent trials suggesting that the etiology of HF, and particularly whether it is ischemic or nonischemic, may influence the long-term prognosis and the response to treatment. Some studies, but not all, suggest that nonischemic HF has a better prognosis than ischemic HF. The data on the benefits of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in ischemic versus nonischemic HF are conflicting. Carvedilol, and recently, bisoprolol have been shown to reduce mortality in ischemic and nonischemic HF, whereas metoprolol has, to date, improved prognosis only in dilated cardiomyopathy. Better responses to digoxin, amlodipine and amiodarone have been reported in non-ischemic HF. There is at present no clear explanation for the apparent therapeutic differences between ischemic and nonischemic HF. Absence of a rigorous definition of "nonischemic HF" in many studies makes interpretation of the results difficult. Further studies to clarify the effects of etiology of HF on the response to treatment could be particularly important for preventing progression to more advanced stages, in which any type of drug therapy may have limited value in prolonging survival. An individualized therapeutic approach, based on etiology of HF and possibly other factors such as plasma drug levels or the levels of neurohormones, could result in major progress in treating HF patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9809925
This study was designed to evaluate the effect of carvedilol on nitrate tolerance in patients with chronic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9809926
This study was designed to compare the preventive efect of nitrate tolerance between carvedilol with antioxidant properties and arotinolol without antioxidant properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9809930
The primary objective of the International Verapamil SR/Trandolapril Study (INVEST) is to compare the risk for adverse outcomes (all-cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction [MI] or nonfatal stroke) in hypertensive patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) treated with either a calcium antagonist-based or a noncalcium antagonist-based strategy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9814627
To examine the effect of the combination of enalapril with a very low dose of hydrochlorothiazide versus atenolol on urinary albumin excretion in normoalbuminuric patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. A secondary objective was to compare the effects of the two regimens in patients with different levels of albuminuria.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9814628
To describe and explain sex differences in antihypertensive drug use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9818888
We evaluated whether type of response to the migraine-induction test with a nitroglycerin ointment applied to the frontotemporal head region could predict the efficacy of antimigraine therapy. Forty-two patients with migraine without aura underwent the test before and 2 months after antimigraine therapy. Two and 4 months after treatment withdrawal, most subjects with a negative response to the post-treatment test maintained treatment benefit, whereas benefit was lost in patients with an early onset migraine response.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9819786
The present study investigated the effect of the new ACE-inhibitor moexipril versus the beta 1-adrenergic blocker atenolol on metabolic parameters, adverse events (AEs) and sitting systolic (SSBP) and sitting diastolic blood pressure (SDBP) in obese postmenopausal women with hypertension (stage I and II). After a 4-week placebo run-in phase, 116 obese, postmenopausal women with primary hypertension were randomised into two treatment groups receiving once daily dosages of either moexipril 7.5 mg or atenolol 25 mg initially (mean age: 57 +/- 7 years in both groups; mean weight: 94 kg in the moexipril group and 89 kg in the atenolol group, corresponding to a body mass index (BMI) of 35.2 kg/m2 and 34.1 kg/m2 in both groups, respectively). After 4 and 8 weeks, the dosages were uptitrated to moexipril 15 mg, or if necessary to moexipril 15 mg/hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 25 mg, or to atenolol 50 mg and atenolol 50 mg/HCTZ 25 mg, in patients whose blood pressure was not sufficiently controlled. At endpoint, metabolic parameters (total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL, HDL, glucose, insulin) were not significantly altered in either treatment group. Most frequent adverse events under monotherapy (moexipril/atenolol) were asthenia (5.3/13.0%), headache (13.2/21.7%), cough (7.9/6.5%), pharyngitis (21.1/8.7%) and peripheral oedema (5.3/13.0%). Overall at least one AE was reported in 66% of the patients treated with moexipril and in 78% of those treated with atenolol. Reduction of SSBP/SDBP at endpoint was 14.7 +/- 1.9/10.0 +/- 1.1 and 8.7 +/- 1.9/8.4 +/- 1.1 mmHg after treatment with moexipril and atenolol, respectively. The results showed that moexipril and atenolol are equally effective in reducing blood pressure without adversely affecting blood lipids and carbohydrate metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9820105
The authors investigated in a retrospective study in a group of diabetics changes in the pharmacotherapy of hypertension. In 1989-1996 2308 diabetics had spa treatment in the Military Balneological Institute in Karlovy Vary and 1058 of these patients had hypertension (45.8%). The patients were from all parts of the Czech Republic and before 1993 from the whole Czechoslovak Federal Republic. The authors investigated the pharmacotherapy of hypertension and focused attention on four basic groups of antihypertensive drugs (beta-blockers, diuretics, Ca channel blockers and ACE inhibitors). They recorded a marked drop of the number of patients taking diuretics (from 62% to 24%), and a slight decline in the group taking beta-blockers). They recorded an increase in Ca channel blockers (from 7% to 54%) and in recent years of ACE inhibitors (from practically zero to 24%). They draw attention to the dominant ratio of some drugs in selected groups of antihypertensives and discuss whether they are suitable for the treatment of hypertension in patients with diabetes mellitus. The number of patients without pharmacotherapy of hypertension declined but was not statistically significant.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9823789
Many advances in the treatment of acute coronary syndromes have been realized over recent years. In ST elevation myocardial infarction, new aggressive thrombolytic regimens improve early reperfusion and improve survival. The current focus is on bolus thrombolysis, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition, and low-molecular-weight heparin as adjuncts. In unstable angina and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction, two major advances are IIb/IIIa inhibition and low-molecular-weight heparin, each of which significantly improves the outcome of patients and which have just been approved for use by the Food and Drug Administration. Following acute coronary syndromes, cholesterol lowering with statin drugs has a major effect, even in the large group of patients with average cholesterol levels. Use of clopidogrel, a more potent antiplatelet agent than aspirin, appears to decrease recurrent ischemic events, which has highlighted the potential benefits of oral IIb/IIIa inhibitors, which are much more potent antiplatelet agents. An additional focus has been on ensuring that patients actually receive the currently available medications. With a great number of new medical treatments, the outcome of patients with acute coronary syndromes has improved and will continue to improve as we enter the next millennium.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9824025
Currently the standard exercise test is shifting from being a tool for the cardiologist to utilization by the nonspecialist. This change could be facilitated by computerization similar to the interpretation programs available for the resting ECG. Therefore, we sought to determine if computerization of both exercise ECG measurements and prediction equations can substitute for visual analysis performed by cardiologists to predict which patients have severe angiographic coronary artery disease. We performed a retrospective analysis of consecutive patients referred for evaluation of possible or known coronary artery disease who underwent both exercise testing with digital recording of their exercise ECGs and coronary angiography at two university-affiliated Veteran's Affairs medical centers and a Hungarian hospital. There were 2,385 consecutive male patients with complete data who had exercise tests between 1987 and 1997. Measurements included clinical and exercise test data, and visual interpretation of the ECG paper tracings and > 100 computed measurements from the digitized ECG recordings and compilation of angiographic data from clinical reports. The computer measurements had similar diagnostic power compared with visual interpretation. Computerized ECG measurements from maximal exercise or recovery were equivalent or superior to all other measurements. Prediction equations applied by computer were only able to correctly classify two or three more patients out of 100 tested than ECG measurements alone. beta-Blockers had no effect on test characteristics while ST depression on the resting ECG decreased specificity. By setting probability limits using the scores from the equations, the population was divided into high-, intermediate-, and low-probability groups. A strategy using further testing in the intermediate group resulted in 86% sensitivity and 85% specificity for identifying patients with severe coronary disease. We conclude that computerized exercise ST measurements are comparable to visual ST measurements by a cardiologist and computerized scores only minimally improved the discriminatory power of the test. However, using these scores in a stratification algorithm allows the nonspecialist physician to improve the discriminatory characteristics of the standard exercise test even when resting ST depression is present. Computerization permitted accurate identification of patients with severe coronary disease who require referral.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9830766
The V JNC consensus stated that although new antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium channel blockers, are considered safer drugs, there is no firm evidence from large controlled trials that these drugs are associated with a lower cardiovascular mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9833172
Morbidity and mortality due to end-stage renal failure has become a major health concern in recent years and there is clear evidence that arterial hypertension constitutes a powerful risk factor for the progression of renal disease. Several studies have documented the benefit of blood pressure control on renal function, and it is increasingly recognized that antihypertensive therapy aimed at reducing blood pressure well below the target value of 140/90 mmHg further improves the overall renal survival rate. Different classes of antihypertensive agents show disparate specific nephroprotective properties that are unrelated to their blood pressure lowering properties. ACE inhibitors and calcium channel blockers have been reported to ameliorate renal function by favorably modifying renal and intraglomerular hemodynamics. In addition, both drugs exert beneficial effects on non-hemodynamic parameters of renal function. In contrast, beta-blockers and diuretics, although still being solely recommended as first line drugs in the management of arterial hypertension, can have adverse effects on renal function. Recently, long-term randomized controlled trials have consistently demonstrated the superior nephroprotective value of ACE inhibitors on renal function outcome. Whether AT1 receptor antagonists have similar effects on long-term renal survival is still under investigation. The outcome of forthcoming clinical trials is likely to influence clinical guidelines and optimize the medical regimen of human essential hypertension in patients with chronic renal insufficiency.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9836247
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9853182
The natural history of heart failure is one of continued worsening of cardiac function. Beta-receptor blocker therapy has been effective in improving clinical status and left ventricular function in patients with heart failure. Similarly, high doses of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors with nitrates partially reverse the ventricular remodeling of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9854453
1. beta-blockers improve morbidity and mortality after myocardial infarction, probably by several mechanisms. We investigated potentially relevant effects of beta-blockers in vivo and in vitro on plasma lipid oxidizability. Forty-two healthy men were randomized to receive placebo (13), metoprolol (14) or propranolol (15). 2. At 4 weeks, the effects on heart rate, blood pressure and lipids appeared similar and subjects taking a beta-blocker were combined. Compared with placebo, those on a beta-blocker gained 0.5 kg in weight (P = 0.04), heart rate fell from 63 to 52 beats/min (P < 0.0001) and blood pressure fell from 116/74 to 113/69 mmHg (P < 0.005); high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol fell from 1.26 to 1.11 mmol/l (P = 0.005), there being no change in the ratio of free to esterified cholesterol in HDL, and there was an apparent rise in serum triacylglycerols from 1.18 to 1.43 mmol/l (P = 0.15 when adjusted for weight gain). Low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol and lipoprotein (a) did not change. In this study, the oxidizability of LDL was unaffected by beta-blocker therapy. beta-blockade was not associated with any change in LDL fatty acid profile, or beta-carotene or alpha-tocopherol content which might account for the reduced LDL oxidizability previously reported in patients treated with beta-blockers. Furthermore, neither atenolol nor propranolol, at concentrations up to 100 mumol/l, had any effect on in vitro oxidizability of LDL obtained from healthy volunteers. 3. In contrast to the favourable haemodynamic effects conferred by beta-blockers, the effects on weight and serum triacylglycerols and HDL-cholesterol appear to be adverse and we did not demonstrate any changes in lipid oxidizability which might be relevant to the protective effects of beta-blockers in patients with coronary disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9856962
-Losartan was the first available orally administered selective antagonist of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor developed for the treatment of hypertension. The Losartan Intervention For Endpoint (LIFE) Reduction in Hypertension Study is a double-blind, prospective, parallel group study designed to compare the effects of losartan with those of the beta-blocker atenolol on the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Patients with essential hypertension, aged between 55 and 80 years, and ECG-documented left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) were included. Altogether, 9223 patients in Scandinavia, the United Kingdom, and the United States were randomized from June 1995 through April 1997, and 9194 remain after exclusion of a study center at which irregularities were discovered. This population of hypertensives (mean systolic/diastolic blood pressure, 174.4/97.8 mm Hg) with LVH comprises women (54.1%) and men, mostly retired from active work (mean age, 66.9 years), with a high prevalence of overweight (mean body mass index, 28.0 kg/m2), diabetes mellitus (12.3%), lipid disorders (18.0%), and symptoms or signs of coronary heart disease (15.1%). There were fewer current smokers (<17%) than in the general population, and approximately 7% were nonwhite. Almost 30% of participants had been untreated for at least 6 months when screened for the study. Only 1557 persons who entered the placebo run-in period of 14 days were excluded, predominantly because of sitting blood pressures above or below the predetermined range of 160-200/95-115 mm Hg and ECG-LVH criteria not met. By application of simple 12-lead ECG criteria for LVH (Cornell voltage QRS duration product formula plus Sokolow-Lyon voltage read by a core laboratory), hypertensive patients with LVH with an average 5-year coronary heart disease risk of 22.3% according to the Framingham score were identified. This population is now being treated (goal, <140/90 mm Hg) in adherence with the protocol for at least 4 years after final enrollment (ie, through April 2001) and until at least 1040 patients suffer myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9857888
The purpose of this study to determine whether use of cardiac medications reflects evidence-based recommendations for patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9866432
Coexisting medical problems are common in surgical patients. Due to the lack of convincing studies, however, the optimal strategies for perioperative management of many medical problems remain unclear. Thus, practices are often based on inconclusive clinical studies or extrapolated from current understanding of pathophysiology. This article reviews guidelines and practices for endocarditis prophylaxis, perioperative anticoagulation in patients with mechanical heart valves, glucose control in diabetic patients undergoing surgery, and the use of beta-blockers to prevent postoperative cardiac complications. In addition, the strength of the evidence supporting these practices is evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9870118
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9870122
To review therapies for treating patients with heart failure (HF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9874045
Despite increasing use of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) to treat stenotic coronary artery disease, there are relatively few prospective studies evaluating its long-term effectiveness. We prospectively randomized 212 stable patients with provocable myocardial ischemia and single-vessel subocclusive coronary disease to receive primary therapy with either PTCA or medical therapy. This report presents the clinical follow-up of these patients at a mean, after randomization, of 2.4 years for interview and 3.0 years for exercise testing. Of the 212 patients originally randomized, 175 received an extended follow-up interview, and 132 underwent exercise testing; 62% of patients in the PTCA group were angina free compared with 47% of patients in the medical group (p <0.05). Furthermore, exercise duration as measured by treadmill testing was prolonged by 1.33 minutes over baseline in the PTCA group, whereas it decreased by 0.28 minutes in the medical group (p <0.04). Although the angina-free time on the treadmill was not different (p=0.50), fewer patients in the medical group developed angina on the treadmill at 3 years than those in the PTCA group (p=0.04). By 36 months, excluding the initial randomized PTCA, use of PTCA and use of coronary artery bypass surgery were not different in the 2 treatment groups. These data indicate that some of the early benefits derived from PTCA in patients with single-vessel coronary artery disease are sustained, making it an attractive therapeutic option for these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9878936
The aim of this study was to assess the 1-year outcome of acute myocardial infarction, in current practice, according to the presence or absence of heart failure. This was an epidemiologic, prospective survey involving 2152 patients recruited in November 1995 from 312 French coronary care units.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9886905
To ascertain the baseline characteristics of the high-risk hypertensive patients entering the International Nifedipine GITS Study: Intervention as a Goal in Hypertension Treatment (INSIGHT). To determine the success of single and combination therapy in achieving target blood pressures in such a population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9890389
The role of cocaine in cardiac ischemia and subsequent reversible and irreversible pathologic changes is well established. Nevertheless, the mechanisms leading to cardiac injury and irreversible cellular changes remain elusive. Reactive oxygen species (ROSs) are the critical mediators of cellular damage during ischemia-reperfusion. To explore the response of cardiac oxidative stress parameters to intravenous (i.v.) And intraperitoneal (i.p.) cocaine exposure, cardiac total glutathione (GSH, GSSG), malonaldialdehyde (MDA), Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), catalase (CAT), GSH-peroxidase (GSH-px), and GSH s-transferase (GST) were measured, along with biochemical and histologic markers indicative of cardiac injury. Repeated i.p. cocaine exposure produced significant impairment in cardiac integrity, demonstrated by increased circulating lactate (2.4-fold; p < 0.0001), creatine kinase (2.2-fold; p < 0.0001), and creatinine levels (1.7-fold; p < 0.0001). Infiltration of neutrophils into myocardial cavities also was evident. These changes paralleled increases in cardiac MDA (25%; p < 0.04), GSSG (55%; p < 0.001), protein carbonyls (23%; p < 0.05), and Mn-SOD (23%; p < 0.05) levels, indicative of oxidative stress, decreases in GSH (35%; p < 0.01), adenosine triphosphate (ATP; 26%; p < 0.04), GSH-px (28%; p < 0.03), CAT (32%; p < 0.01), and GST (50%; p < 0.001) levels. Intravenous cocaine administration also had similar effects on cardiac oxidative stress measures. In conclusion, our data indicate that cocaine administration compromised the heart's antioxidant defense system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9890408
The aim of this study was to analyze whether, in patients with long-standing (>4 years) coronary artery disease (CAD), the addition of the long-acting calcium channel blocker (CCB) amlodipine to conventional treatment [beta-blockers (BBLs) and nitrates] during anginal attacks would have a proarrhythmic effect. This was tested by analyzing data from patients who had taken part in the Circadian Anti-ischemia Program in Europe (CAPE) trial. After a 2-week, single-blind, run-in period (Phase 1), patients were randomized to amlodipine, 5 mg/day (first 4 weeks) and 10 mg/day (second 4 weeks), or placebo for 8 weeks (Phase 2). The 48-h Holter data were analyzed for 167 amlodipine-treated patients and 83 placebo patients based on a 2:1 randomization scheme. Sixty-three per cent of amlodipine patients and 67% of placebo patients were receiving concomitant BBLs, and >90% had taken sublingual nitrates during anginal attacks, as basic antiischemic therapy. After 7 weeks of therapy, when 48-h Holter monitoring was repeated, there were no significant changes in the frequency of ventricular arrhythmias in the placebo or amlodipine groups for all patients or subgroups of patients with or without BBLs. Also, between-group comparisons showed no significant differences in arrhythmias between amlodipine and placebo patients. In summary, amlodipine (5-10 mg/day) given to patients with severe, chronic CAD receiving conventional antiischemic therapy, did not produce any proarrhythmic effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9894381
Many deaths among hospital survivors of acute myocardial infarction are due to sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. This has prompted the evaluation of prophylactic antiarrhythmic drugs and devices. Although it is widely agreed that antiarrhythmic treatment is useful, it is not certain which therapy provides optimal results. Increasing recognition of the efficacy of amiodarone has prompted the design of several trials of the drug. This paper focuses on primary prophylactic antiarrythmic therapy in the post-infarction setting and particularly on recent amiodarone trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9918893
Although beta-adrenoreceptor antagonists appear to be beneficial in chronic heart failure there is little information on their effects on autonomic and baroreceptor function which may have important prognostic implications. We sought to determine first whether beta-adrenoreceptor blockade will improve baroreceptor function and vagal tone in chronic heart failure, and second whether there were any differences between standard therapy with metoprolol and the second-generation vasodilating beta-blocker celiprolol. In this double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study 50 patients with stable chronic heart failure received either celiprolol 200 mg daily, metoprolol 50 mg twice daily or placebo for 12 weeks after a 4-week dose titration period. Thirty-five healthy normal subjects were also studied. Baroreceptor gain was assessed non-invasively by cross-spectral analysis of R-R and systolic blood pressure low- and high-frequency components (the alpha angle) during controlled respiration. High-frequency power was used as a measure of vagal modulation. Satisfactory recordings for analysis were obtained in 31 patients with heart failure. The results showed that at baseline baroreceptor gain (alphaHF) was significantly depressed in patients with heart failure compared with the normal control group (4.95+/-0. 55 versus 11.73+/-1.32 ms/mmHg, P<0.0001). After 12 weeks of treatment with metoprolol baroreceptor gain improved significantly whether measured while supine (P=0.03) or standing (P=0.009), and this was associated with a significant increase in R-R HF power (P=0. 008). There were no significant changes after treatment with celiprolol or placebo. We conclude that metoprolol but not celiprolol therapy restores baroreceptor gain towards normal and increases vagal tone in chronic heart failure. The ancillary properties of celiprolol do not appear to provide any advantages over metoprolol for the restoration of autonomic and baroreceptor function in heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9924849
The beta-blocker/vasodilator carvedilol is found to have beneficial effects in patients with chronic heart failure. However, the safety and efficacy of this agent in the presence of concomitant amiodarone therapy has not been previously determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9926443
It is now clear that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment after myocardial infarction (MI) reduces mortality and morbidity. However, the benefits of ACE inhibition are not homogeneous and are largely confined to high-risk patients who have subjective or objective evidence of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. How long treatment should continue is a vexed question, which also arises with other agents, for example beta-blocker use after MI. The AIREX study assessed the long-term magnitude and duration of the survival benefits observed with ramipril in patients after MI who have clinically defined heart failure. The mortality status of all 603 patients recruited from the UK centres involved in the AIRE study was verified at an extended 5-year follow-up (3 years after the AIRE study closed). Ramipril assignation was associated with a 36% relative and a 11% absolute mortality risk reduction. These findings strongly support the view to select patients on the basis of impaired LV function and reinforce the previously reported conclusions of the "selective" ACE inhibition post-MI trials. Using this approach, the survival benefit is not only of large magnitude but also sustained over many years. These results also argue for life-long treatment with an ACE inhibitor, once a decision to treat an individual patient after MI has been made.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9928753
In this multicentre, double-blind, parallel-group study, 120 out-patients with mild to moderate primary hypertension were randomised, after a 4-week single-blind placebo run-in period, to a combination tablet of felodipine-metoprolol 5/50 mg (Logimax, Mobloc, Astra) once daily or enalapril 10 mg once daily. If blood pressure (BP) remained suboptimally controlled after 4 weeks (supine diastolic BP >90 mm Hg 24-h post dose), the dose was doubled for a further 4 weeks. After 8 weeks felodipine-metoprolol reduced supine BP significantly more than enalapril (19.7/12.0 mmHg and 11.1/7.2 mm Hg, respectively). The mean differences in change in BP between treatments were 8.6/4.8 mm Hg in favour of felodipine-metoprolol (P = 0.001/P <0.001). A statistically significant difference to the advantage of felodipine-metoprolol was also seen in standing BP. Even though the dose was increased in a larger proportion of patients in the enalapril group (61%) than in the felodipine-metoprolol group (40%), fewer enalapril-treated patients achieved adequate BP control (41% vs 63% on felodipine-metoprolol, P <0.05). Both treatments were well tolerated. Three patients treated with felodipine-metoprolol and four with enalapril discontinued treatment due to adverse events. A similar number of patients reported adverse events in each treatment group. In conclusion, a combination tablet of felodipine-metoprolol 5/50-10/100 mg once daily reduced BP more effectively than enalapril 10-20 mg once daily 24 h post dose. The result was expected, but a more important observation was that both treatments were tolerated to a similar degree. Obviously, a considerable BP reduction may be well tolerated, as was the main purpose to demonstrate in this study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9931077
-Our objective was to compare cardiovascular event rates in patients with stable angina receiving nifedipine as monotherapy or combination therapy and in active drug controls. A MEDLARS search of published articles from 1966 to 1995 in English, French, German, Italian, or Spanish, supplemented by a manual search of bibliographies, identified 60 randomized controlled trials that met protocol criteria. Blinded articles were extracted by 2 physicians. The pooled risks of death, withdrawal, and cardiovascular event were computed and expressed as odds ratios (ORs) for all nifedipine formulations and relative to same study control drug regimens. Thirty cardiovascular events were reported in 2635 nifedipine exposures (1.14%) and 19 events in 2655 other active drug exposures (0.72%). Unadjusted ORs for nifedipine versus controls were 1.40 (95% CI, 0.56 to 3.49) for major events (death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, stroke, revascularization procedure), 1.75 (95% CI, 0.83 to 3.67) for increased angina, and 1.61 (95% CI, 0.91 to 2.87) for all events (major events plus increased angina). Episodes of increased angina were more frequent on immediate-release nifedipine (OR, 4.19 [95% CI, 1.41 to 12.49]) and on nifedipine monotherapy (OR, 2.61 [95% CI, 1.30 to 5.26]). The OR for immediate-release nifedipine was significantly higher than that for sustained-release/extended-release nifedipine (P=0.001), and the OR for nifedipine monotherapy was higher than that for nifedipine combination therapy (P=0.03). Increased risks of cardiovascular events in patients with stable angina on nifedipine were due primarily to more episodes of increased angina, confined to the immediate-release formulation and to nifedipine monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9932994
To compare the long-term efficacy and safety of brimonidine 0.2% twice daily with timolol 0.5% twice daily in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9934342
Rational medical decisions should be based on the best possible evidence. Clinical trial results, however, may not reflect conditions in actual practice. In hypertension, for example, trials indicate equivalent antihypertensive efficacy and safety for many medications, yet blood pressure frequently remains uncontrolled, perhaps owing to poor compliance. This paper examines the effect of initial choice of treatment on persistence with therapy in actual practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9952147
Orally administered clonidine (0.2-0.3 mg) has been reported to decrease the acute hypertensive response to electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) without prolonging early recovery. This preliminary study was designed to evaluate the acute hemodynamic effects of the investigational alpha2-adrenergic agonist, dexmedetomidine, in patients undergoing a series of ECT treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9973007
We compared the effects of five pharmacologic regimens on the circadian rhythm and exercise-induced changes of ventricular rate (VR) in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation (CAF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9988956
In the Hypertension Optimal Treatment (HOT) study, hypertensive patients who were randomly assigned to undergo antihypertensive treatment to achieve a goal diastolic blood pressure of 80 mm Hg or lower did not experience fewer cardiovascular events than did patients who received treatment with goal pressures of 85 or 90 mm Hg. Such aggressive antihypertensive treatment was safe and well tolerated, and did result in fewer cardiovascular events in the subset of patients with diabetes. All patients were randomly assigned to take aspirin 75 mg/day or placebo, and patients in the aspirin group had a 15% lower rate of major cardiovascular events and myocardial infarctions than did patients who received placebo. This finding establishes the efficacy of aspirin in preventing strokes and myocardial infarctions in hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9989534
Multiple models explaining the pathogenesis of heart failure have been put forth during the past 5 decades. These models were modified as clinical evidence supported or refuted their assumptions. During the past 2 decades, heart failure models emphasized the importance of neurohormonal systems in heart failure progression. The positive impact that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have had on mortality from heart failure has bolstered the neurohormonal theory. Attention recently has turned to the sympathetic nervous system and its potential deleterious effects on the cardiovascular system in heart failure. The sympathetic nervous system can negatively impact the cardiovascular system in heart failure in several ways, including down-regulating beta1-receptors, exerting direct toxic effects on the myocardium, and contributing to myocardial remodeling and life-threatening arrhythmias. Beta-adrenergic blockers have shown promise for reducing morbidity and mortality in heart failure, but definitive reductions in mortality remain to be shown by future investigations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9989964
Plasma neurohormones were analyzed for prediction of adverse outcomes and response to treatment in 415 patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction randomly assigned to receive carvedilol or placebo.
