
Abstract for pubmed ID 10068412
Compared with other insulin regimens, combination therapy with oral hypoglycemic agents and bedtime insulin produces similar improvement in glycemic control but induces less weight gain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10082152
The increased tolerance to myocardial ischaemia observed during the second of two sequential exercise tests, i.e. the warm-up phenomenon, has been proposed as a clinical model of ischaemic preconditioning. As ATP-sensitive K+ channels appear to be a mediator of ischaemic preconditioning in both experimental and clinical studies, the aim of this study was to investigate the role of K(ATP) channels in the warm-up phenomenon.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10085698
The study group comprised 56 patients (25 males and 31 females) with type 2 diabetes in whom the secondary failure to sulphonylurea derivates (SU) had developed. All patients were submitted for 14 days to therapy with 5 injections of insulin per day in total dose of insulin permitting to decrease the mean daily glycaemia below 8.8 mmol/l (160 mg/dl). After the termination of the intensive insulin therapy (IIT) the patients with insulin requirement below 44 U daily were alternatively qualified to treatment with SU (glybenclamide) alone or with this SU plus biguanide derivate (BG: phenformin), and those who needed more than 44 U daily continued conventional therapy with insulin alone or with insulin plus SU (glybenclamide). There was a marked reduction of fasting and postprandial blood glucose during the IIT and over the subsequent 15 months of the follow-up. The mean glycaemia which initially was in fasting state 12.5 +/- 2.4 mmol/l (225 +/- 43 mg/dl) and 2 hours after breakfast 18.1 +/- 2.8 mmol/l (325 +/- 50 mg/dl) decreased significantly and was in four groups between 8.0 +/- 0.3 mmol/l (144 +/- 5 mg/dl) and 10.8 +/- 0.5 mmol/l (194 +/- 9 mg/dl) in fasting state and between 10.5 +/- 0.3 (189 +/- 5 mg/dl) and 11.2 +/- 0.4 mmol/l (201 +/- 7 mg/dl) after breakfast. The least hypoglycaemic effect was found in patients who after IIT were treated exclusively with insulin (mean daily dose 53 +/- 2 IU) while the decrease of glycaemia was most evident in patients treated with SU given as a single drug or in combination with BG or with insulin (mean daily dose 19 +/- 1 IU). In all studied patients basal and stimulated (1 mg glucagon i.v.) C-peptide secretion markedly decreased during IIT, and greatly increased after its termination, and this increase persisted over following 15 months of observation, correlating with the initial values.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10097930
Repaglinide is a newly developed oral blood glucose-lowering agent that exerts its effect by stimulating insulin secretion. This multicenter study was designed to compare the efficacy and safety of this drug with glyburide in a 1-year randomized double-blind study of outpatients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10178657
A short term (6-month) cost-effectiveness model has been developed to simulate current medical practice and disease progression in patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus uncontrolled by diet and exercise. The model is based on decision-analytical techniques and includes probabilities of switching between treatments, the reason for the switch and the most common switch options. Effectiveness and economic measures are the 2 main outcomes. In order to assess effectiveness, we use symptom-free days with acceptable control (SFDACs), which represent each day of treatment without adverse events or symptoms, and with acceptable control of glucose and lipids. For the economic evaluation, only incremental costs incurred directly by a health insurance system are considered. This model should prove useful in the evaluation of new oral antidiabetic agents, since the short term aim of antidiabetic therapy is to provide adequate control in the absence of adverse effects and symptoms (a prerequisite for successful long term treatment). Furthermore, short term analysis provides data for comparing initial investment in drug therapy with potential savings over a longer treatment period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10178668
Bodyweight is an acknowledged independent risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). The present model analysis was undertaken to investigate the clinical and economic impact of bodyweight gain in patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus and its effects on the development of CHD. Based on a retrospective re-evaluation of data from the Diabetes Intervention Study (DIS), patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and stable bodyweight (group A) had a significantly lower rate of combined CHD events (30.3%) than patients showing a bodyweight gain (group B; 38.2%) over 10 years. Prevention of bodyweight gain, therefore, appears to be a meaningful strategy in the management of diabetes mellitus. In addition to this clinical advantage, prevention of CHD will also result in economic savings associated with avoided treatment of coronary events. Based on the clinical outcomes from the DIS, the calculated per-patient net savings for a patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus and stable bodyweight amounted to 1085 deutschmarks (DM) when compared with a patient experiencing a bodyweight increase. In a further step, the above situation was projected to current type 2 diabetes mellitus practice. Oral first-line treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus is usually initiated with glibenclamide (glyburide), which is known to increase bodyweight (reflecting group B). The novel alpha-glucosidase inhibitor acarbose, in contrast, appears to be as effective as glibenclamide, but has the advantage of being bodyweight-neutral (reflecting group A). From the clinical viewpoint, acarbose can thus be considered an alternative to glibenclamide. From the viewpoint of drug costs, monotherapy with acarbose is 4 times as expensive as glibenclamide in Germany, resulting in per-patient incremental costs of DM3527 for acarbose over 10 years. Balanced against the potential 10-year cost saving of DM1085 resulting from the potential of acarbose to prevent CHD, around one-third of the incremental cost of acarbose may be recouped by this single effect. However, further possible benefits of acarbose, including the avoidance of hypoglycaemia and the deferral of costly insulin therapy, may improve the economic value of this novel antidiabetic agent. Given the indirect approach of this evaluation and its many limitations, the above findings need critical appraisal, and comparative trials are urgently required to substantiate our preliminary results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10193691
Troglitazone is the first of a new group of oral antidiabetic drugs, the thiazolidinediones, and is indicated for the treatment of patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. Troglitazone acts by enhancing the effects of insulin at peripheral target sites and, unlike the sulphonylurea drugs, is not associated with hypoglycaemia when administered as monotherapy. Clinical trials with troglitazone (usually 200 to 600 mg/day) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus consistently showed marked improvement in glycaemic control, as well as reductions in fasting serum insulin, C-peptide and triglyceride levels. Comparative studies with either glibenclamide (glyburide) or metformin indicated similar glycaemic control with troglitazone or these agents. Serum insulin levels were lower with troglitazone than with glibenclamide. Clinical trials of up to approximately 2 years' duration showed that glycaemic control is maintained with troglitazone on a long term basis. In general, troglitazone is well tolerated by the majority of patients. However, discontinuation of troglitazone because of elevated liver enzyme levels occurs in approximately 2% of patients receiving the drug, and frequent monitoring of liver enzymes is required (e.g. at least 11 times during the first year of therapy). Among patients who started troglitazone therapy in 1998 (after the incorporation of a boxed warning and increased monitoring requirements in the product labelling), the estimated risk of liver-related death is approximately 1 in 100,000.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10199430
New criteria for the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus have recently been introduced that lowered the diagnostic fasting plasma glucose (FPG) concentration from 7.8 to 7.0 mmol/L (140 to 126 mg/dL).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10213347
Glimepiride is a new sulfonylurea for diabetes treatment which is supposed to impact less on extra-pancreatic ATP-dependent K+ channels than the conventional drug glibenclamide. This study was performed to evaluate whether this results in a better maintenance of ATP-dependent K+ channel mediated ischaemic myocardial preconditioning.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10229308
Previous studies have shown that in Caucasian subjects with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM), the sulphonylurea glibenclamide increased insulin secretion without causing an increase in 32/33 split proinsulin secretion. South Asian subjects with Type 2 DM are thought to be more insulin resistant and the effect of sulphonylureas may be different. We therefore investigated the effect of sulphonylurea therapy with gliclazide on beta-cell function in South Asian subjects with newly diagnosed Type 2 DM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10332683
This study was designed to compare diurnal blood glucose excursions and the effects of accidental dietary noncompliance in type 2 diabetic patients who are well-controlled on either repaglinide or glyburide treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10333912
To compare the effect of repaglinide in combination with metformin with monotherapy of each drug on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10333939
To assess the relationship between nondiabetic glucose levels and cardio vascular risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10333958
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10337452
The purpose of the study was the comparison of the effect of the oral therapy of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) with either a sulphonylurea or biguanide derivative on plasma amylin level. In 10 healthy individuals the fasting plasma amylin level was 1.56 +/- 0.27 pmol/l (mean +/- SEM) and 6 min after i.v. injection of 1 mg glucagon a fourfold increase was observed. In 10 patients with NIDDM receiving glibenclamide (CAS 10238-21-8) the fasting plasma amylin level was twofold higher than in healthy control (2.72 +/- 0.38 pmol/l; p < 0.025) but following glucagon administration it increased only twofold. In 15 patients treated with metformin (CAS 657-24-9) the fasting plasma amylin level was similar to that in healthy individuals (1.64 +/- 0.25 pmol/l), but after glucagon stimulation the increment of plasma amylin was minimal and the relevant mean value was significantly lower when compared with those in healthy individuals and with NIDDM patients treated with glibenclamide. In 10 untreated obese patients with newly diagnosed NIDDM the administration of glibenclamide (14 days) resulted in the increase of basal (2.47 +/- 0.23 and 3.16 +/- 0.29 pmol/l; p < 0.1), and glucagon stimulated (3.34 +/- 0.39 and 4.56 +/- 0.38; p < 0.05) plasma amylin concentrations, whereas other 10 patients receiving metformin showed a decrease in fasting plasma level of this peptide before (2.64 +/- 0.59 and 1.28 +/- 0.38 pmol/l; p < 0.1), and after glucagon injection (5.02 +/- 0.55 and 2.83 +/- 0.65 pmol/l; p < 0.02). With the respect to the trophic effect of amyloid deposits in the pancreatic islets and to a hypothetic effect of amylin increasing insulin resistance, the present results emphasize the particular usefulness of metformin in the pharmacological treatment of NIDDM. All contraindications and side effects of metformin should be taken into account before drug administration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10359389
Treatment with diet alone, insulin, sulfonylurea, or metformin is known to improve glycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, but which treatment most frequently attains target fasting plasma glucose (FPG) concentration of less than 7.8 mmol/L (140 mg/dL) or glycosylated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) below 7% is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10363530
Daily blood glucose profiles were measured in 163 Type 2 elderly diabetic cases to evaluate whether a fasting (before breakfast) or a post-prandial (after breakfast) blood glucose concentration is able to predict blood glucose values throughout the day. In the diet-treated alone group (n = 61), the percentage of daily blood glucose profiles having plasma glucose values less than the 08:00 hours (before breakfast) value were as follows: 59.0%, 32.8%, 59.0%, and 55.7% at 18.00 (before supper), 24.00, 03.00, 06.00 hours, respectively. In group treated by oral hypoglycemic agents (OHA) (n = 102), these were as follows: 45.1%, 26.5%, 52.9%, and 67.6%, respectively. In the OHA group, the mean plasma glucose value at 08:00 hours was significantly higher in patients with the lowest plasma glucose levels between 60-79 mg/dl than in patients with these levels between 80-99 mg/dl (103.7 +/- 19.6 vs 118.7 +/- 16.9 mg/dl, p < 0.01), but that at 10:00 hours was similar in the two groups (218.8 +/- 43.9 vs 214.5 +/- 40.1 mg/dl). In patients with lowest plasma glucose levels of between 60-99 mg/dl, the 08:00 hours value correlated positively with that of 24:00 (r = 0.40), 03.00 (r = 0.53), and the 06.00 hours value (r = 0.69), but no correlation was observed with the 18.00 hours value. On the other hand, the 10:00 hours value was not associated with these time-points values. Our results reveal that before breakfast plasma glucose values are more predictive of low blood glucose values in the night during sleep than after-breakfast blood glucose values, but do not predict low blood glucose values before supper in patients on OHA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10372240
Troglitazone was recently reported to specifically promote the differentiation of pre-adipocytes into adipocytes in vitro in subcutaneous fat only, indicating a relation to insulin-resistance-improving action of troglitazone. To expand on this finding, we investigated at the clinical level how long-term administration of troglitazone influences the body fat distribution in type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10379630
To compare the efficacy and safety of repaglinide, a novel oral prandial glucose regulator, with that of glibenclamide, an oral hypoglycaemic agent, in the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10388978
To determine in patients with type 2 diabetes the effects on quality of life (QOL) of therapies for improving blood glucose control and for improving blood pressure (BP) control, diabetic complications, and hypoglycemic episodes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10400405
Rosiglitazone, a thiazolidinedione antidiabetic agent, improves insulin resistance, a key underlying metabolic abnormality in most patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. In animal models of insulin resistance, rosiglitazone decreased plasma glucose, insulin and triglyceride levels and also attenuated or prevented diabetic nephropathy and pancreatic islet cell degeneration. In contrast with troglitazone, rosiglitazone does not induce cytochrome P4503A4 metabolism. It does not interact significantly with nifedipine, oral contraceptives, metformin, digoxin, ranitidine or acarbose. In clinical trials in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, rosiglitazone 2 to 12 mg/day (as a single daily dose or 2 divided daily doses) improved glycaemic control, as shown by decreases in fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c). Addition of rosiglitazone 2 to 8 mg/day to existing sulphonylurea, metformin or insulin therapy achieved further reductions in fasting plasma glucose and HbA1c. Oral combinations improved insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function according to a homeostasis model assessment. Consistent with its mechanism of action, rosiglitazone appears to be associated with a low risk of hypoglycaemia (<2% of patients receiving monotherapy). There is no evidence to date that rosiglitazone shares the hepatotoxicity of troglitazone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10406828
The present study examined the hemodynamic mechanisms of blood pressure (BP) lowering by troglitazone in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) at rest and during a mental arithmetic test (MAT). Twenty-two patients with DM with normal to high-normal BP and 12 controls matched for age, gender, glucose tolerance, and BP were studied. DM subjects showed significantly higher systolic BP response during MAT than controls (157 versus 139 mm Hg; P<0.01). All 22 DM patients and 5 of 12 controls had systolic BP >140 mm Hg during MAT. Heart rate and diastolic BP were not significantly different between the 2 groups. The DM group was then randomized to receive troglitazone (n=10; 400 mg/d) or glyburide (n=12; 20 mg/d). MAT was repeated after 6 months of treatment. Both treatments reduced glucose equally (-1.7 mmol/L for troglitazone and -1.5 mmol/L for glyburide), but only troglitazone reduced insulin (-15 microU/mL; P<0.001) and C-peptide (-0.9 ng/mL; P<0.02) levels. Troglitazone significantly reduced BP at baseline (P<0.05) and systolic BP response to MAT (P<0.01), whereas glyburide did not affect BP at baseline or during MAT. Stroke volume and cardiac output did not change with either drug, but troglitazone decreased peripheral vascular resistance (-112 dyne. s. cm(-5); P<0.05). Improved insulin resistance rather than an improved glycemic control is associated with lower resting and stress BP values in patients with DM. A reduction in vascular resistance may be a primary hemodynamic mechanism of the manner in which troglitazone lowers BP. Insulin sensitizers may offer potential therapeutic advantage in subjects with DM with elevated BP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10416947
Glucokinase (GK), expressed in hepatocyte and pancreatic beta cells, has a central regulatory role in glucose metabolism. Efficient GK activity is required for normal glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, postprandial hepatic glucose uptake, and the appropriate suppression of hepatic glucose output and gluconeogenesis by elevated plasma glucose. Hepatic GK activity is subnormal in diabetes, and GK may also be decreased in the beta cells of type II diabetics. In supraphysiological concentrations, biotin promotes the transcription and translation of the GK gene in hepatocytes; this effect appears to be mediated by activation of soluble guanylate cyclase. More recent evidence indicates that biotin likewise increases GK activity in islet cells. On the other hand, high-dose biotin suppresses hepatocyte transcription of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, the rate-limiting enzyme for gluconeogenesis. Administration of high-dose biotin has improved glycemic control in several diabetic animals models, and a recent Japanese clinical study concludes that biotin (3 mg t.i.d. orally) can substantially lower fasting glucose in type II diabetics, without side-effects. The recently demonstrated utility of chromium picolinate in type II diabetes appears to reflect improved peripheral insulin sensitivity--a parameter which is unlikely to be directly influenced by biotin. Thus, the joint administration of supranutritional doses of biotin and chromium picolinate is likely to combat insulin resistance, improve beta-cell function, enhance postprandial glucose uptake by both liver and skeletal muscle, and inhibit excessive hepatic glucose production. Conceivably, this safe, convenient, nutritional regimen will constitute a definitive therapy for many type II diabetics, and may likewise be useful in the prevention and management of gestational diabetes. Biotin should also aid glycemic control in type I patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10426848
The prognosis for children with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) is variable. Patients who fail to exhibit improvement in left ventricular (LV) function have a high 1-year mortality rate, whereas improvement in LV fractional shortening (LVFS) to >15% is associated with better survival. However, complete recovery of LV performance to normal has not been examined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10427465
Bromfenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug whose peak plasma concentration is reached 0.5 hours after oral administration. Bromfenac binds extensively to plasma albumin. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve is linearly proportional to the dose for oral doses up to 150 mg. The relationship between the total plasma and analgesic effect has been established. Only small amounts of bromfenac are eliminated unchanged, with the remaining drug being biotransformed into glucuronide metabolites which are excreted in urine and bile. Rapid elimination occurs in healthy individuals (half-life 0.5 to 4.0 h). Renal disease, hepatic disease and aging alter the disposition kinetics of bromfenac, and dosage adjustment may be advisable. Bromfenac modestly decreases free phenytoin concentrations. Bromfenac can cause idiosyncratic hepatic toxicity and has been withdrawn by its manufacturer pending further investigation of these case reports.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10430816
Type 2 diabetes is a heterogeneous disorder. Clinical expression of the disorder requires both genetic and environmental factors. One theory concerning its etiology is that it is the result of the evolution of a thrifty genotype that had survival benefits in the past but is detrimental in the current environment. An opposing theory is that it represents an adult metabolic response to fetal malnutrition. Hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes results from absolute or relative insulin deficiency. Most often relative insulin deficiency is attributable to an inability to adequately compensate for insulin resistance. Insulin resistance may be caused by a variety of genetic or metabolic factors. The most common etiological factor in insulin resistance is central obesity. Insulin resistance is associated with a cluster of metabolic abnormalities that include glucose intolerance, hypertension, a unique dyslipidemia, a procoagulant state, and an increase in macrovascular disease. Clinical intervention studies have demonstrated that reduction in the chronic microvascular and macrovascular complications of type 2 diabetes requires treatment of hyperglycemia to achieve hemoglobin A1c <7.0%, blood pressure </=130/80 mmHg, and plasma LDL-cholesterol </=2.6 mmol/L (</=100 mg/dL). Oral antihyperglycemic agents increase endogenous insulin secretion, decrease insulin resistance, or lower postprandial plasma glucose rise by delaying absorption of complex carbohydrates. Long-term glycemic control in type 2 diabetes requires progressive, stepwise, combination treatment with oral agents and eventually combination treatment with oral agents and insulin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10436254
In the present study we assessed and compared the effectiveness and safety of preconstituted, fixed, combinations of low-dose glyburide plus metformin with higher-dose glyburide monotherapy in patients with type 2 diabetes. This randomized, double-blind, cross-over study comprised 40 patients. After a 30-day run-in period of dietary treatment, patients received combined glyburide (5, 7.5 or 10 mg/day) and metformin (800, 1,200 or 1,600 mg/day) as preconstitued, fixed combinations, or glyburide alone (5, 10 or 15 mg/day). The dose was increased stepwise so as to have 1 (T1), 2 (T2) and 3 (T3) months of treatment for any given regimen (6 months in total). After 2 weeks of washout (T4), the groups were then crossed over (T5, T6, T7 periods). Body weight, fasting plasma glucose, HbA(1c), blood lactate, total cholesterol and HDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides were measured at the beginning and end of T1 and T5, and end of T2, T3, T6 and T7; postprandial plasma glucose, fasting and postprandial plasma insulin and C-peptide were evaluated at the beginning of T1 and T5, and end of T3 and T7. At these latter time points additional assessments included routine clinical chemistry measurements, ECG, and ophthalmoscopic examination. Statistical analysis was performed by the paired Student's t-test and analysis of variance for cross-over studies. Thirty-three patients completed the study. Fasting plasma glucose, postprandial plasma glucose and HbA(1c) levels improved significantly during combined treatment with glyburide at lower doses plus metformin. This effect was achieved without any major change of insulin and C-peptide concentrations. Circulating lactate concentrations increased during the regimen including metformin, but they remained well within the reference values for normal subjects. Plasma total cholesterol and triglycerides levels remained substantielly unchanged throughout the study, whereas HDL-cholesterol concentrations increased slightly, but significantly, with glyburide plus metformin therapy. Routine clinical chemistry measurements, ECG and ophthalmoscopic examinations did not change during the study. These results demonstrate that improved metabolic control can be achieved with preconstituted, fixed combinations of low-dose glyburide plus metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes, compared to higher doses of the sulphonylurea alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10436259
In this prospective study we aimed to compare insulin plus acarbose with insulin plus gliclazide with respect to their effect on insulin requirement, lipid profiles and body mass index (BMI) while achieving good glycemic control. Forty patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were on conventional insulin therapy (subcutaneous insulin therapy consisting of regular and NPH insulin, two times a day) were included in the study. They were randomized to double blind treatment with insulin in combination with gliclazide or acarbose for 6 months. For both groups, acceptable glycemic control was achieved at the end of study period. The mean HbA(1c) levels decreased from 8.32+/-0.26 to 7.13+/-0.18% in acarbose group and 8. 6+/-0.15 to 7.48+/-0.21% in the gliclazide group. The difference between groups was not significant (P 0.29). In the acarbose group, total cholesterol and LDL concentration decreased significantly while other parameters did not change. In the gliclazide group, HDL levels decreased significantly from 46.6+/-2.48 mg/dl to 41.3+/-2.09 mg/dl (P 0.001) BMI increased significantly from 27.60+/-1.21 kg/m(2) to 28.69+/-1.26 kg/m(2). (P 0.003) Total daily insulin dose was not changed in the acarbose group significantly, but increased from 42.6+/-2.73 to 49.27+/-3.58 U/day, which was significant in gliclazide group of (P 0.016). In the acarbose group, there were no significant differences between responders and nonresponders with respect to fasting and stimulated C-peptide, HbA(1c) levels and baseline BMI values. But in the gliclazide group, baseline BMI values were significantly higher in the nonresponding group compared to responders (P 0.02). In conclusion, combination of insulin with acarbose can be a good alternative for type 2 diabetic patients on insulin therapy; seems more beneficial than combination with gliclazide; may have advantage of achieving good glycemic control without increasing insulin dose and BMI; also may have the advantage of providing a decrease in LDL level, which are all important to prevent atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10445835
A comparison of the frequency of severe hypoglycaemia leading to hospital admission in people with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) treated with long vs. short-acting sulphonylureas.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10454950
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic disorder that results from defects in both insulin secretion and insulin action. An elevated rate of basal hepatic glucose production in the presence of hyperinsulinemia is the primary cause of fasting hyperglycemia; after a meal, impaired suppression of hepatic glucose production by insulin and decreased insulin-mediated glucose uptake by muscle contribute almost equally to postprandial hyperglycemia. In the United States, five classes of oral agents, each of which works through a different mechanism of action, are currently available to improve glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. The recently completed United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) has shown that type 2 diabetes mellitus is a progressive disorder that can be treated initially with oral agent monotherapy but will eventually require the addition of other oral agents, and that in many patients, insulin therapy will be needed to achieve targeted glycemic levels. In the UKPDS, improved glycemic control, irrespective of the agent used (sulfonylureas, metformin, or insulin), decreased the incidence of microvascular complications (retinopathy, neuropathy, and nephropathy). This review examines the goals of antihyperglycemic therapy and reviews the mechanism of action, efficacy, nonglycemic benefits, cost, and safety profile of each of the five approved classes of oral agents. A rationale for the use of these oral agents as monotherapy, in combination with each other, and in combination with insulin is provided.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10465860
Unlike other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), sertraline has linear pharmacokinetics so that increases in dose lead to proportional increases in drug concentration. The half-life of sertraline is about 26 h so that it reaches a steady state in one week, according to the product monograph. Hypoglycemia associated with sertraline and coadministration of oral hypoglycemics belonging to the sulphonylurea derivatives has rarely been reported. A patient with schizoaffective disorder with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) treated with sertraline, risperidone and glyburide who developed hypoglycemia is presented. The article highlights that inhibition of P450 enzymes can be affected by several different factors. Interactions are possible whenever a patient concomitantly receives two drugs that bind to the same P450 system Greater inhibition was likely induced at doses higher than those recommended. This process was reversed within 10 days of discontinuing the sertraline. Good glycemic control followed discontinuation of psychotropic drugs and the oral hypoglycemic agent. Knowledge of the individual P450 enzymes is important in the metabolism of individual drugs, together with an understanding of the patient's drug metabolizing ability. These factors may lead to more appropriate prescribing and further research into specific P450 enzymes responsible for metabolism of particular drugs, which remains unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10466661
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommend that fasting glucose alone with the oral glucose tolerance test should be used to diagnose diabetes mellitus. We assessed mortality associated with the ADA fasting-glucose criteria compared with the WHO 2 h post-challenge glucose criteria.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10476312
One of the factors determining glucose tolerance is glucose disappearance independent from the dynamic insulin (glucose effectiveness); the debate on its role in the development of Type-2 diabetes is still open. The aim of the present study was to evaluate insulin delivery, insulin sensitivity (SI), and glucose effectiveness (SG) in a group of elderly Type-2 diabetic patients (D, 4/6 F/M, age 67 +/- 2 years, 64 +/- 2 kg, BMI 23.8 +/- 0.5 kg/m2), compared to young controls (C, 4/6 F/M, 25 +/- 2 years, 72 +/- 4 kg, 23.7 +/- 1.1 kg/m2) and elderly controls (E, 2/4 F/M, 73 +/- 3 years, 63 +/- 4 kg, 23.1 +/- 0.5 kg/m2). We performed oral (OGTT) and intravenous (FSIGT) glucose tolerance tests. The OGTT showed that C and E were normotolerant, while D had a markedly reduced glucose tolerance. This was also confirmed in the FSIGT where the glucose tolerance index (KG) was 0.6 +/- 0.1% min-1 in D vs 1.8 +/- 0.2 in C and 1.5 +/- 0.2 in E (p < 0.0002). Total insulin area of D and the overall insulin delivery were not different from those of the control groups. The early phase area was instead significantly reduced (0.19 +/- 0.02 mU min/mL vs 0.61 +/- 0.06 of C and 0.46 +/- 0.06 of E, p < 0.001) given the reduction in the dynamic first-phase insulin delivery (0.86 +/- 0.17 min(microU/mL)/(mg/dL) vs 3.95 +/- 0.61 in C (p < 0.005) and 2.61 +/- 0.66 (p < 0.001) in E). SI of D was 3.4 +/- 0.4 10(-4) min-1/(microU/mL), not different from that of C (4.7 +/- 0.6) and E (3.5 +/- 0.2). This study showed a marked difference between SG of D and that of both control groups [0.010 +/- 0.001 min-1 vs 0.026 +/- 0.004 (p < 0.001) of C and 0.020 +/- 0.003 (p < 0.002) of E], mostly due to the zero-insulin component GEZI which was 0.006 +/- 0.001 in D vs 0.021 +/- 0.004 in C and 0.016 +/- 0.003 in E (p < 0.003). In the elderly groups, when taken together, SG exhibited a positive correlation with the area under insulin concentration during the early phase and with KG (r = 0.69, p = 0.0032 and r = 0.90, p = 0.0001, respectively), demonstrating the importance of the first-phase insulin delivery in modulating glucose effectiveness and glucose tolerance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10480768
The associations between glucose intolerance measured at the study entry date and the 23-year incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD), CHD mortality, and total mortality were examined at the Honolulu Heart Program.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10483287
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10487540
The kidney plays an important role in the homeostasis of carnitine by its ability to reabsorb carnitine almost completely from the glomerular filtrate. The transport process responsible for this reabsorption has been investigated thus far only in laboratory animals. Here we report on the characteristics of carnitine uptake in a proximal tubular epithelial cell line derived from human kidney. The uptake process was found to be obligatorily dependent on Na+ with no involvement of anions. The process was saturable, with a Michaelis-Menten constant of 14 +/- 1 microM. The Na+:carnitine stoichiometry was 1:1. The same process also was found to be responsible for the uptake of acetylcarnitine and propionylcarnitine, two acyl esters of carnitine with potential for therapeutic use in humans. The uptake process was specific for carnitine and its acyl esters. Betaine, a structural analog of carnitine, interacted with the uptake process to a significant extent. The present studies also showed that sulfonylureas, oral hypoglycemic agents currently used in the management of type 2 diabetes, inhibited the carnitine uptake system. Among the sulfonylureas tested, glibenclamide was the most potent inhibitor. The inhibition was competitive. Glibenclamide inhibited the uptake not only of carnitine but also of acetylcarnitine and propionylcarnitine. The inhibition most likely was the result of direct interaction of the compound with the carnitine transporter because the inhibition could be demonstrated in purified rat kidney brush border membrane vesicles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10491414
The pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes involves abnormalities in insulin action, insulin secretion, and endogenous glucose output (EGO). However, the sequence with which these abnormalities develop and their relative contributions to the deterioration in glucose tolerance remain unclear in the absence of a detailed longitudinal study. We measured insulin action, insulin secretion, and EGO longitudinally in 17 Pima Indians, in whom glucose tolerance deteriorated from normal (NGT) to impaired (IGT) to diabetic over 5.1 +/- 1.4 years. Transition from NGT to IGT was associated with an increase in body weight, a decline in insulin-stimulated glucose disposal, and a decline in the acute insulin secretory response (AIR) to intravenous glucose, but no change in EGO. Progression from IGT to diabetes was accompanied by a further increase in body weight, further decreases in insulin-stimulated glucose disposal and AIR, and an increase in basal EGO. Thirty-one subjects who retained NGT over a similar period also gained weight, but their AIR increased with decreasing insulin-stimulated glucose disposal. Thus, defects in insulin secretion and insulin action occur early in the pathogenesis of diabetes. Intervention to prevent diabetes should target both abnormalities.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10496299
Troglitazone is a new thiazolidinedione oral antidiabetic agent approved for use to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. It is rapidly absorbed with an absolute bioavailability of between 40 and 50%. Food increases the absorption by 30 to 80%. The pharmacokinetics of troglitazone are linear over the clinical dosage range of 200 to 600 mg once daily. The mean elimination half-life ranges from 7.6 to 24 hours, which facilitates a once daily administration regimen. The pharmacokinetics of troglitazone are similar between patients with type 2 diabetes and healthy individuals. In humans, troglitazone undergoes metabolism by sulfation, glucuronidation and oxidation to form a sulfate conjugate (M1), glucuronide conjugate (M2) and quinone metabolite (M3), respectively. M1 and M3 are the major metabolites in plasma, and M2 is a minor metabolite. Age, gender, type 2 diabetes, renal impairment, smoking and race do not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics of troglitazone and its 2 major metabolites. In patients with hepatic impairment the plasma concentrations of troglitazone, M1 and M3 increase by 30%, 4-fold, and 2-fold, respectively. Cholestyramine decreases the absorption of troglitazone by 70%. Troglitazone may enhance the activities of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A and/or transporter(s) thereby reducing the plasma concentrations of terfenadine, cyclosporin, atorvastatin and fexofenadine. It also reduces the plasma concentrations of the oral contraceptive hormones ethinylestradiol, norethindrone and levonorgestrel. Troglitazone does not alter the pharmacokinetics of digoxin, glibenclamide (glyburide) or paracetamol (acetaminophen). There is no pharmacodynamic interaction between troglitazone and warfarin or alcohol (ethanol). Pharmacodynamic modelling showed that improvement in fasting glucose and triglyceride levels increased with dose from 200 to 600 mg. Knowledge of systemic troglitazone exposure within a dose group does not improve the prediction of glucose lowering response or adverse effects beyond those based on the administered dose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10501822
The present study was designed to assess the disposition of (14)C-repaglinide in whole blood, plasma, urine and faeces, and to measure the total recovery of drug-related material in urine and faeces after a single 2-mg oral dose of (14)C-repaglinide during multiple dosing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10510156
To identify the human cytochrome P450 enzyme(s) involved in the in vitro metabolism of rosiglitazone, a potential oral antidiabetic agent for the treatment of type 2 diabetes-mellitus. Method The specific P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of rosiglitazone were determined by a combination of three approaches; multiple regression analysis of the rates of metabolism of rosiglitazone in human liver microsomes against selective P450 substrates, the effect of selective chemical inhibitors on rosiglitazone metabolism and the capability of expressed P450 enzymes to mediate the major metabolic routes of rosiglitazone metabolism. Result The major products of metabolism following incubation of rosiglitazone with human liver microsomes were para-hydroxy and N-desmethyl rosiglitazone. The rate of formation varied over 38-fold in the 47 human livers investigated and correlated with paclitaxel 6alpha-hydroxylation (P<0.001). Formation of these metabolites was inhibited significantly (>50%) by 13-cis retinoic acid, a CYP2C8 inhibitor, but not by furafylline, quinidine or ketoconazole. In addition, both metabolites were produced by microsomes derived from a cell line transfected with human CYP2C8 cDNA. There was some evidence for CYP2C9 playing a minor role in the metabolism of rosiglitazone. Sulphaphenazole caused limited inhibition (<30%) of both pathways in human liver microsomes and microsomes from cells transfected with CYP2C9 cDNA were able to mediate the metabolism of rosiglitazone, in particular the N-demethylation pathway, albeit at a much slower rate than CYP2C8. Rosiglitazone caused moderate inhibition of paclitaxel 6alpha-hydroxylase activity (CYP2C8; IC50=18 microm ), weak inhibition of tolbutamide hydroxylase activity (CYP2C9; IC50=50 microm ), but caused no marked inhibition of the other cytochrome P450 activities investigated (CYP1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A and 4A). Conclusion CYP2C8 is primarily responsible for the hydroxylation and N-demethylation of rosiglitazone in human liver; with minor contributions from CYP2C9.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10520444
Several new pharmacological agents attempt to correct abnormalities in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes mellitus. The availability of agents with different mechanisms of action and side-effect profiles permits the design of individualized regimens that address the various pathophysiologic abnormalities.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10526729
To determine whether the plasma glucose-lowering effects of sulfonylureas and acute submaximal exercise are additive and, accordingly, to determine whether they may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined in fasting patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10534139
It has become evident that cardiovascular disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in type 2 diabetes mellitus. This raises the possibility that glucose lowering agents with other nonglucose-lowering effects, might have added benefits. In this review, we focus on the metabolic and cardiovascular effects of oral antidiabetic agents that go beyond glucose-level lowering. Such effects include lipid modifying actions, antithrombotic and profibrinolytic activities, and direct action at the level of the vessel wall to improve endothelial function or prevent smooth muscle hyperplasia. These additional activities, particularly those seen with the newer oral antidiabetic agents, hold the promise of reducing cardiovascular complications beyond that achievable by glucose lowering alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10547208
To study whether changes in endogenous insulin secretion at the same glycaemic control affect the plasma concentrations of lipoproteins in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10547209
To evaluate the effect of adding insulin to sulphonylurea (SU) and the effect of SU withdrawal on glycaemic control in Type 2 diabetic patients who failed on treatment with SU alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10558125
To compare, from a managed care perspective, the 3-year costs of 3 first-line monotherapy strategies in type 2 diabetes patients: glipizide gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS), metformin, and acarbose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10566126
We report the case of a 35 year-old woman with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding in a type 2 diabetic patient well controlled with glibenclamide. After volume resuscitation and transfusion with packed blood cells an infusion of octreotide at 50 mcg/hr was started. It was decided to start a long term octreotide treatment and the potential effect on her glycemic control was studied. A 75 gram oral glucose tolerance test was performed in two consecutive days with and then without octreotide infusion. With octreotide blood glucose was higher and insulin levels were lower. As clinical indications expand, situations will arise where patients with diabetes on sulfonylureas may require octreotide with a conceivable dramatic worsening of glycemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10566566
This study assessed the safety profile and efficacy of a new combination therapy (insulin lispro plus sulfonylurea) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus experiencing secondary oral agent failure. A total of 423 patients were randomly assigned to 3 treatment groups: preprandial insulin lispro plus sulfonylurea (L + S), bedtime neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin plus sulfonylurea (N + S), and preprandial insulin lispro plus bedtime NPH insulin (L + N). Mean decreases in glycosylated hemoglobin from baseline were 1.60%+/-1.27% for patients receiving L + S, 1.21%+/-1.21% for those receiving N + S, and 1.40%+/-1.46% for those receiving L + N (within treatment, P<0.001; for L + S vs. N + S, P = 0.003). Fasting blood glucose level was higher in patients receiving L + S (171+/-46.5 mg/dL) or L + N (166+/-52.5 mg/dL) than in those receiving N + S (144+/-48.2 mg/dL) (P<0.001, for both comparisons). Conversely, postprandial blood glucose level was lower in patients receiving L + S (165+/-41.6 mg/dL) or L + N (165+/-46.3 mg/dL) than in those receiving N + S (213+/-58.3 mg/dL) (P<0.001, for both comparisons). The overall rate of hypoglycemia (episodes per 30 days) was not statistically significant when the L + S, N + S, and L + N therapies were compared (0.99+/-1.74 vs. 0.87+/-2.31 vs. 1.16+/-2.38, respectively). The rate of nocturnal hypoglycemia was lowest in the L + S group (0.00+/-0.00 vs. 0.10+/-0.37 for the N + S group vs. 0.15+/-0.54 for the L + N group; P = 0.004). L + S, which has a safety profile equal to those of N + S and L + N, is an effective treatment for patients with type 2 diabetes who experience oral sulfonylurea agent failure. L + S offers an alternative to these established combination therapies in patients whose type 2 diabetes cannot be controlled with a sulfonylurea alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10576528
Recent surveys in the US have indicated that 71% of the total diabetes care is delivered by primary care physicians, and that current management practices in terms of the point of initiation of pharmacological treatment fall considerably short of the American Diabetes Association's recommendations. In part, this delay in initiating treatment is due to a fear of provoking hypoglycaemia, which in itself results from a general avoidance of blood glucose monitoring on the part of patients. As a consequence of this apparent disregard for diabetes care, blood glucose concentrations are not adequately controlled in the US and this is reflected in a high incidence of chronic complications, particularly diabetic neuropathy. This is likely to have major cost implications in the future. In an effort to improve the standard of diabetes care, a number of US authorities have begun producing guidelines for primary care physicians, and in the State of Texas, treatment algorithms that incorporate recommendations based on the current US registration trial data have been developed. These recommendations, which have now been adopted by the State of Texas and form part of the minimum standard of care mandated by the State Department of Health's Diabetes Council, provide guidance on the selection and use of oral antidiabetic drugs (including sulphonylureas, metformin, troglitazone, repaglinide and acarbose) in patients with type 2 diabetes, both for glycaemic control and for prevention of cardiovascular complications. It is hoped that organised implementation of these treatment algorithms will produce better control of diabetes and its complications than the current ad hoc strategies used by individual practitioners.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10587839
It has previously been demonstrated that the risk of hypoglycemia is low among otherwise healthy elderly fasted patients with type 2 diabetes taking oral sulfonylurea medications. Nevertheless, these agents do cause hypoglycemia in clinical practice, suggesting that accompanying factors must typically be present for hypoglycemia to occur. Ethanol is one putative risk factor that has not been evaluated as a mechanism for low blood glucose among sulfonylurea users. We hypothesized that low concentrations of ethanol would reduce blood glucose concentrations in elderly type 2 diabetic patients receiving sulfonylureas during a short-term fast.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10593133
Repaglinide is a new oral blood glucose lowering agent, a member of the carbamoylmethyl benzoic acid (CMBA) family. Its mechanism of action is partly similar to that of the sulphonylurea: the release of insulin from the pancreatic beta cells is stimulated by closure of ATP-dependent potassium channels. However, repaglinide regulates these channels via a different binding site on the beta cell than glibenclamide, and the drug does not cause insulin release in the absence of glucose, or during voltage-clamping. After oral administration the drug is rapidly absorbed and eliminated. It is therefore used in a meal-related dosing regimen; repaglinide is taken with each main meal. This meal-related use may give a more physiological mimick of daytime insulin requirement than once-daily or twice-daily use of sulphonylurea. Patients using repaglinide are less likely to develop hypoglycaemic symptoms when they miss or postpone a meal in comparison with patients on glibenclamide treatment. In long-term comparative phase 3 clinical studies it was found that repaglinide is equally effective in maintaining glycaemic control as existing sulphonylurea, but it gives significantly better control of postprandial blood glucose levels. Repaglinide can be used as monotherapy both in obese and non-obese type 2 diabetic patients, and is also very effective in combination with drugs like metformin or thiazolidines. Because of its excretion through liver and bile it is also an attractive drug for diabetic patients with diminished kidney function, especially the elderly diabetic. Although the overall incidence of hypoglycaemia was similar during use of repaglinide and of sulphonylurea, fewer serious hypoglycaemic episodes were observed in repaglinide-treated patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10594485
Thioctic acid (TA), glibenclamide and acarbose are widely used to either alone or concomitantly treat patients suffering from noninsulin-dependent diabetes (NIDDM). This study systematically investigated drug-drug interactions between TA and glibenclamide and TA and acarbose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10605995
Epidemiologic and interventional studies have led to lower treatment targets for type 2 diabetes (formerly known as non-insulin-dependent diabetes), including a glycosylated hemoglobin level of 7 percent or less and a before-meal blood glucose level of 80 to 120 mg per dL (4.4 to 6.7 mmol per L). New oral medications make these targets easier to achieve, especially in patients with recently diagnosed diabetes. Acarbose, metformin, miglitol, pioglitazone, rosiglitazone and troglitazone help the patient's own insulin control glucose levels and allow early treatment with little risk of hypoglycemia. Two new long-acting sulfonylureas (glimepiride and extended-release glipizide) and a short-acting sulfonylurea-like agent (repaglinide) simply and reliably augment the patient's insulin supply. Combinations of agents have additive therapeutic effects and can restore glucose control when a single agent is no longer successful. Oral therapy for early type 2 diabetes can be relatively inexpensive, and evidence of its cost-effectiveness is accumulating.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10611897
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10631622
In this 24-week multicenter, double-blind, randomized, fixed-dose trial, 361 patients having type 2 diabetes received daily preprandial treatment with placebo (n = 75), repaglinide 1 mg (n = 140), or repaglinide 4 mg (n = 146). By a last-observation carried-forward calculation, repaglinide 1 mg or 4 mg treatment decreased mean fasting plasma glucose (FPG) values (by -47 mg/dL or -49 mg/dL) while the placebo group had increased FPG values (by 19 mg/dL). For the repaglinide treatment groups at the end of the study, changes in HbA1c from baseline values ranged from 1.8 to 1.9 percentage points lower than the placebo group. There were no events of severe hypoglycemia. Nearly all hypoglycemic symptom episodes had blood glucose levels above 45 mg/dL. Repaglinide was well tolerated in a preprandial fixed-dose regimen of 1 mg or 4 mg, assigned without adjustment for clinical parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10641958
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a heterogeneous disorder characterised by defects in insulin secretion as well as reduced insulin action. During aging, glucose intolerance will gradually develop, and this is manifested primarily by an increase in the postprandial blood glucose response while fasting blood glucose levels are often less elevated. Abnormal beta-cell secretion of insulin is a main feature of this. Treatment of elderly patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus focuses on reduction of (hyperglycaemic) complaints and prevention of the development or progression of secondary complications. Although regular physical activity and dietary measures, aiming at bodyweight normalisation, are the cornerstones of therapy, pharmacological treatment with oral blood glucose lowering-agents often proves necessary to control the hyperglycaemia. In the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) it was clearly shown that patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were intensively treated with oral blood glucose-lowering agents or insulin developed less microvascular complications. The question whether achievement of strict metabolic control is also of benefit in elderly patients, is still unanswered. Sulphonylureas are drugs which stimulate insulin secretion by enhancing the release of insulin from the pancreatic beta-cells without an effect on insulin synthesis. They are frequently used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus, and several preparations are available. In general, there are no major differences in effectiveness between the various sulphonylureas. Long term treatment with sulphonylureas will decrease fasting and postprandial plasma glucose levels by 3 to 5 mmol/L, and glycosylated haemoglobin by 20%. However, after its initial decline, plasma glucose level will often go up slightly during the following months to years. Sulphonylureas are usually well tolerated. Hypoglycaemia is the most frequently occurring adverse effect, which may be very serious and damaging in the elderly. It has been associated primarily with long-acting sulphonylureas, like chlorpropamide and glibenclamide (glyburide). Hypoglycaemic episodes may trigger serious events like myocardial infarction or stroke. Therefore, shorter-acting compounds like tolbutamide and gliclazide have been relatively well tolerated and appear to be the best choice to treat elderly patients. It is advisable to start with a low dose and increase the dose, when needed, in small steps. The efficacy of sulphonylureas is much greater when they are taken before a meal. Because of the fact that type 2 diabetes mellitus is a progressive disease, and residual beta-cell function decreases with time, insulin therapy may ultimately be warranted in a significant number of patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10643211
This article reviewed the relevant literature including published clinical trials and reviews on currently available oral hypoglycemic agents. Results showed that the benefits of glycemic control have been established through multiple clinical trials. Long-term control of blood glucose levels in type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients will decrease the incidence and prolong the time until progression of diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy. Our increased understanding of the pathophysiology behind type 2 diabetes has led to the development of many new agents that are aimed at treating the underlying insulin resistance and relative insulinopenia. The sulfonylureas as a group have been used for many years and act by stimulating insulin secretion. They are useful alone or as combination therapy with insulin or another oral hypoglycemic agent. The biguanides act by decreasing hepatic glucose production and by increasing peripheral insulin sensitivity. The alpha-glucosidase inhibitors act nonsystemically by blocking the metabolism of digested polysaccharides and therefore lowering the amount of carbohydrate absorbed in a meal. Benzoic acid derivatives act in a manner similar to that of sulfonylureas by enhancing pancreatic insulin production. They offer a shorter duration of action, lowering the risk of hypoglycemia. The thiazolidinediones increase peripheral insulin sensitivity and are effective as both monotherapy and combination therapy. Oral hypoglycemic agents, when properly administered, are very effective in controlling type 2 diabetes and preventing long-term complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10663449
We analysed the kinetics and effects of glibenclamide (Gb) on glucose, insulin and proinsulin secretion in two ethnic groups (10 in each) of type-2 diabetic patients, one of Caucasian, the other of Chinese origin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10664920
Repaglinide is a novel insulin secretagogue developed in response to the need for a fast-acting, oral prandial glucose regulator for the treatment of type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. Repaglinide is metabolized mainly in the liver; its pharmacokinetics may therefore be altered by hepatic dysfunction. This open, parallel-group study compared the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of a single 4 mg dose of repaglinide in healthy subjects (n = 12) and patients with chronic liver disease (CLD) (n = 12). Values for AUC and Cmax were significantly higher in CLD patients compared with healthy subjects, and the MRT was prolonged in CLD patients. Values for tmax did not differ between the groups, but t1/2 was significantly prolonged in CLD patients compared with previously determined values in healthy subjects. AUC was inversely correlated with caffeine clearance in CLD patients but not in healthy subjects. Blood glucose profiles were similar in both groups. Adverse events (principally hypoglycemia) were similar in the two groups; none was serious. Repaglinide clearance is significantly reduced in patients with hepatic impairment; the agent should be used with caution in this group.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10688395
To assess the economic efficiency of adding troglitazone to sulfonylurea therapy to improve glycemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10691158
This study was designed to test the efficacy and safety of low-dose rosiglitazone, a potent, insulin-sensitizing thiazolidinedione, in combination with sulphonylurea in Type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10718777
Gliclazide pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics were assessed in 9 Caucasians and 10 Australian Aborigines with uncomplicated type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10746009
In addition to dietary and lifestyle changes, standing as the cornerstone of type 2 diabetes care, pharmacological treatments, whether as single or multidrug patterns, are often necessary for an efficient blood glucose control. Besides insulin, four different oral antidiabetic drug categories are available, each of them acting through different and potentially synergistic ways. Oral antidiabetic drugs include: 1) biguanides acting through the reduction of hepatic glucose production and are most efficient in obese patients; 2) alpha-glucosidase inhibitors delaying carbohydrate intestinal absorption; 3) thiazolidinediones or "glitazones", acting as insulin sensitizers; 4) insulin secretion enhancers, mainly including sulfonylureas, which increase insulin secretion and are being credited by a long clinical usage; these are now joined by the new generation of insulin secretion enhancers, led by repaglinide, which can mimic the physiological insulin secretion profile by a specific stimulatory effect on beta-cells characterized by its fast onset and short half-life. Obviously, the combination of these different antidiabetic drugs, by targetting different synergistic and additive pathways, can help to further improve blood glucose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10746824
Long-term studies on the comparative efficacy and relative potency of glipizide and glyburide are sparse and controversial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10776834
Miglitol, the first pseudomonosaccharide alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, smooths postprandial peak plasma glucose levels and thus improves glycaemic control, which is reflected in a reduced glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) level. This oral antihyperglycaemic agent is indicated for the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Miglitol is generally well tolerated and, unlike the sulphonylurea agents, is not associated with bodyweight gain or hypoglycaemia when administered as monotherapy. The drug is systemically absorbed but is not metabolised and is rapidly excreted via the kidneys. Clinical trials with miglitol (usually 50 or 100 mg 3 times daily) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus consistently demonstrated a significant improvement in glycaemic control for periods of 6 to 12 months. There were also marked reductions in postprandial serum insulin levels, although miglitol generally had no effect on fasting insulin levels. In comparative studies miglitol had similar efficacy to acarbose, but at lower therapeutic doses (50 and 100 mg 3 times daily, respectively). In addition, although sulphonylurea agents provided superior reductions in HbA1c levels, miglitol provided similar or superior reductions in fasting and postprandial plasma glucose levels. In combination with other oral antidiabetic agents or insulin, miglitol improved glycaemic control in patients in whom metabolic control was suboptimal despite dietary and pharmacological intervention. Most adverse events associated with miglitol treatment involve disturbances of the gastrointestinal tract (most common effects are flatulence, abdominal pain and diarrhoea). These symptoms are usually dose dependent, mild to moderate in severity, occur at the onset of treatment, decline with time and resolve promptly on discontinuation of the drug or with dosage adjustment. As monotherapy, miglitol is not associated with hypoglycaemia, but concomitant use with other oral antidiabetic agents may necessitate dosage adjustment of the other agents. Miglitol had no significant effects on renal, cardiovascular, respiratory or haematological parameters in long term studies. No dosage adjustments are required in elderly patients, in those with hepatic impairment or in those with mild to moderate renal insufficiency. Conclusions: In long term, well designed trials miglitol reduces fasting and postprandial plasma glucose levels, thus improving glycaemic control, which is reflected in a reduced HbA1c level in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Most adverse events associated with miglitol involve disturbances of the gastrointestinal tract. This agent is a useful first-line therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus insufficiently controlled by diet alone and as second-line or as adjuvant therapy in those insufficiently controlled with diet and sulphonylurea agents. Miglitol may prove particularly beneficial in elderly patients and those with hepatic impairment or mild to moderate renal impairment, in whom other oral antidiabetic agents are contraindicated or need to be used with caution.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10784228
The new non-sulphonylurea oral hypoglycaemic agent nateglinide has been shown to enhance insulin secretion in animals and in healthy human volunteers and thus offers a potential advance in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus. This study examined whether nateglinide can enhance insulin secretion, and particularly the first phase insulin response, in patients with Type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10806608
To assess the effect of tolcapone (an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 [CYP] 2C9 in vitro) on the pharmacokinetics and hypoglycemic effect of the CYP 2C9 substrate tolbutamide, 12 healthy male volunteers were randomized to receive a single dose of tolbutamide 500 mg plus either placebo or tolcapone 200 mg after an overnight fast and 30 minutes after the start of a 6.5-hour 5% glucose infusion (150 mL/h). The participants crossed over to receive the alternative regimen after a washout period of at least 7 days. Tolcapone had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of tolbutamide or its metabolites and did not influence the effect of tolbutamide on plasma glucose concentrations. No serious adverse events or abnormal laboratory results or vital signs were reported. In conclusion, clinically relevant drug-drug interactions between tolcapone and tolbutamide when given together in clinical practice appear unlikely.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10817086
The prevalence of coronary heart disease (CHD) is markedly increased in diabetic patients compared with non-diabetic individuals, and its prognosis is less good. Serum total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations have been shown to be powerful predictors of CHD morbidity and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes. The available data suggest that the target cholesterol concentration in patients with diabetes should be similar to that in non-diabetic individuals with a previous myocardial infarction. This led us to investigate the efficacy, tolerability and safety of a new, highly potent statin, cerivastatin, in diabetic hyperlipidaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10818026
To estimate the cost effectiveness of conventional versus intensive blood glucose control in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10819233
Erythromycin mimics the effect of the gastrointestinal hormone motilin by binding to its receptor and acting as a motilin agonist. We recently found that motilin stimulates insulin secretion at lower doses than doses required to stimulate gastric contractile activity. We studied the effects of erythromycin on insulin secretion and glycaemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10820647
Most patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus require pharmacotherapy, initially as monotherapy and subsequently in combination, as adjuncts to diet and exercise. Exogenous insulin is ultimately required in a substantial proportion, reflecting the progressive natural history of the disease. Sulphonylureas and biguanides have been employed for over 4 decades as oral antidiabetic agents, but they have a limited capacity to provide long term glycaemic control and can cause serious adverse effects. Thus, more efficacious and tolerable antidiabetic agents are required. Recent years have witnessed the introduction of agents with novel modes of action, that is, the alpha-glucosidase inhibitors acarbose and miglitol (which reduce postprandial hyperglycaemia) and the first of the thiazolidinedione insulinsensitising drugs--troglitazone and rosiglitazone. Although the former has been withdrawn in some countries due to adverse effects, another 'glitazone' pioglitazone is expected to be approved in the near future. Other recently introduced drugs include glimepiride and the meglitinide insulin secretagogue, repaglinide. Attention is also focusing increasingly on combination therapy using insulin together with sulphonylureas, metformin or troglitazone. Rapid-acting insulin analogues are now being used as alternatives to conventional insulins; their role in the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus is presently uncertain but reports of a reduced frequency of hypoglycaemia are encouraging. The development of new drugs aims to counter the principal metabolic defects of the disorder, respectively, relative insulin deficiency and insulin resistance. Novel classes of rapid-acting secretagogues under evaluation include the morphilinoguanide BTS 67582 and the meglitinides mitiglinide (KAD 1229) and senaglinide (A-4166). Succinate ester derivatives represent a potential novel approach to improving beta-cell function through enhancement of insulin biosynthesis and secretion. Enhancement of nutrient-induced insulin secretion is a mechanism with several putative targets within the beta-cell; potentiators of insulin secretion include glucagon-like peptide-1 and its analogues, phosphodiesterase inhibitors and the imidazoline derivative PMS 812 (S 21663). The amylin agonist pramlintide slows gastric emptying and suppression of glucagon secretion. Non-thiazolidinedione insulin-sensitising agents include the gamma-receptor agonist G 1262570X (GG 570) and D-chiro-inositol. Insulin analogues with prolonged action and inhaled insulin preparations are also under investigation. Insulin-mimetic agents include organic vanadium compounds. Whether newer agents will offer clinically relevant efficacy and tolerability advantages over existing therapies remains to be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10823010
Glimepiride, commercialized in Belgium under the trade name of Amarylle by Aventis, is a new sulphonylurea compound which is indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes, after diet and exercise failure. It is available as 2 mg tablets. The initial doses is 1 mg, to be progressively increased up to 4 mg per day, if necessary, with a maximal daily dose of 6 mg. It is recommended to take glimepiride once a day, with the first main meal. Because of a particular binding of this sulphonylurea to the B cells of Langerhans pancreatic islets and, perhaps, of the presence of some extrapancreatic effects, both hypoglycaemic risk and circulating plasma insulin levels are lower with glimepiride than with glibenclamide, the reference sulphonylurea agent used in comparative clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10834429
Repaglinide is a new oral hypoglycemic agent that acts as a prandial glucose regulator proposed for the treatment of type 2 diabetes by stimulating insulin secretion. The aim of this study was to explore actions of repaglinide on the rapid pulsatile insulin release by high-frequency insulin sampling and analysis of insulin-concentration time series.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10857945
To examine the dose-related pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of a single preprandial oral dose of repaglinide in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10857959
We tested whether oral hypoglycemic agents (OHA), gliclazide with or without metformin, during an isoenergetic (ISO) and then a low-energy diet (LED) improve the altered kinetics of whole-body protein metabolism in type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10868832
The objective of the study was to assess the efficacy and safety of four fixed doses of nateglinide compared with placebo in the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes with focus on the prandial state.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10868864
Nateglinide, a new short-acting D-phenylalanine derivative for treating type 2 diabetes, reduces mealtime blood glucose excursions by physiologic regulation of insulin secretion. This study evaluated the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions of nateglinide and metformin in subjects with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10877006
Pharmacodynamic effects of nateglinide, a novel antidiabetic agent, were investigated in patients with type-2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10894443
Warm-up phenomenon, one of the clinical models of ischemic preconditioning, refers to an increased tolerance to myocardial ischemia during the second of two consecutive exercise tests.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10895850
This multicenter open-label clinical trial compared the efficacy and safety of repaglinide/troglitazone combination therapy, repaglinide monotherapy, and troglitazone monotherapy in type 2 diabetes that had been inadequately controlled by sulfonylureas, acarbose, or metformin alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10905487
The purpose of this study was to examine the response of pancreatic beta-cells to changes in insulin sensitivity in women at high risk for type 2 diabetes. Oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTTs) and frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance tests (FSIGTs) were conducted on Latino women with impaired glucose tolerance and a history of gestational diabetes before and after 12 weeks of treatment with 400 mg/day troglitazone (n = 13) or placebo (n = 12). Insulin sensitivity was assessed by minimal model analysis, and beta-cell insulin release was assessed as acute insulin responses to glucose (AIRg) and tolbutamide (AIRt) during FSIGTs and as the 30-min incremental insulin response (30-min dINS) during OGTTs. Beta-cell compensation for insulin resistance was assessed as the product (disposition index) of minimal model insulin sensitivity and each of the 3 measures of beta-cell insulin release. In the placebo group, there was no significant change in insulin sensitivity or in any measure of insulin release, beta-cell compensation for insulin resistance, or glucose tolerance. Troglitazone treatment resulted in a significant increase in insulin sensitivity, as reported previously. In response, AIRg did not change significantly, so that the disposition index for AIRg increased significantly from baseline (P = 0.004) and compared with placebo (P = 0.02). AIRt (P = 0.001) and 30-min dINS (P = 0.02) fell with improved insulin sensitivity during troglitazone treatment, so that the disposition index for each of these measures of beta-cell function did not change significantly from baseline (P > 0.20) or compared with placebo (P > 0.3). Minimal model analysis revealed that 89% of the change from baseline in insulin sensitivity during troglitazone treatment was accounted for by lowered plasma insulin concentrations. Neither oral nor intravenous glucose tolerance changed significantly from baseline or compared with placebo during troglitazone treatment. The predominant response of beta-cells to improved insulin sensitivity in women at high risk for type 2 diabetes was a reduction in insulin release to maintain nearly constant glucose tolerance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10907625
Combination oral therapy is often used to control the hyperglycemia of patients with type 2 diabetes. We compared the effectiveness of metformin and troglitazone when added to sulfonylurea therapy for patients with type 2 diabetes who had suboptimal blood glucose control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10929931
Several new pharmacological agents have recently been developed to optimise the management of type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. The aim of this article is to briefly review the various therapeutic agents available for management of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and to suggest a potential approach to drug selection. There are three general therapeutic modalities relevant to diabetes care. The first modality is lifestyle adjustments aimed at improving endogenous insulin sensitivity or insulin effect. This can be achieved by increased physical activity and bodyweight reduction with diet and behavioural modification, and the use of pharmacological agents or surgery. This first modality is not discussed in depth in this article. The second modality involves increasing insulin availability by the administration of exogenous insulin, insulin analogues, sulphonylureas and the new insulin secretagogue, repaglinide. The most frequently encountered adverse effect of these agents is hypoglycaemia. Bodyweight gain can also be a concern, especially in patients who are obese. The association between hyperinsulinaemia and premature atherosclerosis is still a debatable question. The third modality consists of agents such as biguanides and thiazolidinediones which enhance insulin sensitivity, or agents that decrease insulin requirements like the alpha-glucosidase inhibitors. Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a heterogeneous disease with multiple underlying pathophysiological processes. Therapy should be individualised based on the degree of hyperglycaemia, hyperinsulinaemia or insulin deficiency. In addition, several factors have to be considered when prescribing a specific therapeutic agent. These factors include efficacy, safety, affordability and ease of administration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10934787
In this open, randomized, two way crossover, bioequivalence study, two 5 mg tablet preparations of glipizide (Glipizyd tabl. 5 mg, Tarchomiskie Zakady Farmaceutyczne POLFA S.A., and Glibenese tabl. 5 mg, Pfizer), were compared in 24 healthy male volunteers. Pharmacokinetic variables (mean maximum plasma concentration, mean time to reach maximum plasma concentration, and the mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve) were not statistically significantly different for the two formulations. It can be concluded that the two tablet preparations of glipizide are likely to be bioequivalent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10937510
Available basal insulin formulations do not provide a constant and reliable 24-h insulin supply. We compared the efficacy and safety of glargine (a long-acting insulin analog) and NPH insulins in insulin-naive type 2 diabetic patients treated with oral antidiabetic agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10937524
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10969849
The human plasma-cell membrane differentiation antigen-1 (PC-1) has been shown to inhibit insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity. Recently, a K121Q polymorphism in the human PC-1 gene was found in a Sicilian population and was shown to be strongly associated with insulin resistance. The objectives of the present investigation were to examine in the Danish Caucasian population whether the K121Q variant was associated with type 2 diabetes or, in glucose-tolerant subjects, with impaired whole-body insulin sensitivity. We genotyped 404 Danish type 2 diabetic patients and found that the allele frequency of the variant was 0.14 (95% CI 0.12-0.16), whereas the allele frequency was 0.16 (95% CI 0.13-0.19) among 237 matched glucose-tolerant control subjects (P = 0.6). In the control subjects, there were no significant differences among wild-type, heterozygous, or homozygous subjects in regard to 1) serum insulin and plasma glucose levels at fasting, 60 min, or 120 min during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) or 2) the estimates of insulin resistance obtained from the homeostasis model assessment (HOMA). Furthermore, we investigated the impact of the variant in 2 other Danish population samples that comprised 356 young healthy subjects and 226 glucose-tolerant offspring of type 2 diabetic probands, respectively. In all of the study populations, the polymorphism was not associated with an altered insulin sensitivity index as estimated from an intravenous glucose tolerance test in combination with an intravenous injection of tolbutamide. In addition, among the 226 offspring, the variations in serum insulin and serum C-peptide responses measured during an OGTT were not related to the PC-1 genotype. In conclusion, the K121Q polymorphism of the human PC-1 gene is not associated with type 2 diabetes or insulin resistance among Danish Caucasians.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10972579
To assess maternal and neonatal complications in pregnancies of diabetic women treated with oral hypoglycaemic agents during pregnancy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10975046
Every diabetes treatment contributes to the control of postprandial blood glucose, yet some agents more specifically target this goal. Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, led by acarbose, mainly address postprandial glucose control. These agents inhibit intestinal disaccharidases through a competitive effect and can be used either as the sole treatment or in combination with other antidiabetic drugs. Other agents improve insulin secretion kinetics. This is the case for repaglinide et nateglinide, which are efficient in controlling postprandial blood glucose, and to a lesser degree, fasting blood glucose. These agents shortly and quickly stimulate insulin secretion and should be available soon. In oral therapy secondary failures, trials are currently being conducted to clarify the role of fast-acting insulin analogs, as monotherapy or in combination. Finally, insulin sensitizing agents are being investigated as a way to improve postprandial glucose efflux by potentiating insulin effects. The optimal strategy for the use of these different therapeutic agents remains to be established, as well as their long-term effects on diabetic complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10977012
To compare the overall efficacy of combination therapies focused on fasting or postprandial blood glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes not adequately controlled with oral sulfonylurea agents alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10983737
Pioglitazone is an orally administered insulin sensitising thiazolidinedione agent that has been developed for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Pioglitazone activates the nuclear peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), which leads to the increased transcription of various proteins regulating glucose and lipid metabolism. These proteins amplify the post-receptor actions of insulin in the liver and peripheral tissues, which leads to improved glycaemic control with no increase in the endogenous secretion of insulin. In placebo-controlled clinical trials, monotherapy with pioglitazone 15 to 45 mg/day has been shown to decrease blood glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The addition of pioglitazone 30 mg/day to preexisting therapy with metformin, or of pioglitazone 15 or 30 mg/day to sulphonylurea, insulin or voglibose therapy, has been shown to decrease HbA1c and fasting blood glucose levels significantly in patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus. Pioglitazone has also been associated with improvements in serum lipid profiles in randomised placebo-controlled clinical studies. The drug has been well tolerated by adult patients of all ages in clinical studies. Oedema has been reported with monotherapy, and pooled data have shown hypoglycaemia in 2 to 15% of patients after the addition of pioglitazone to sulphonylurea or insulin treatment. There have been no reports of hepatotoxicity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11019600
To determine whether an excessive, prolonged and, above all, unusual physical exertion could be associated with episodes of mild hypoglycaemia in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients treated with glibenclamide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11023137
To evaluate in type 1 diabetic patients 1) the long-term feasibility of a high-fiber (HF) diet composed exclusively of natural foodstuffs and 2) the efficacy of this diet in relation to blood glucose control and incidence of hypoglycemic episodes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11030470
Nateglinide is a novel D-phenylalanine derivative that inhibits ATP-sensitive K+ channels in pancreatic beta-cells in the presence of glucose and thereby stimulates the prandial release of insulin. Nateglinide reduces fasting and mealtime blood glucose levels in animals, healthy volunteers, and patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus, and produces prompt prandial insulin responses with return to baseline insulin levels between meals. In randomised, double-blind 24-week studies in patients with type 2 diabetes, oral nateglinide 120 mg 3 times daily before meals improved glycaemic control significantly relative to placebo. Nateglinide 120 mg plus metformin 500 mg, both 3 times daily, conferred greater glycaemic improvement than either drug given alone, and nateglinide 60 or 120 mg 3 times daily plus metformin 1 g twice daily was superior to metformin plus placebo. Nateglinide 120 mg 3 times daily significantly reduced hyperglycaemia relative to placebo in a 16-week double-blind study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Combination therapy with troglitazone 600 mg daily produced significantly better glycaemic control than either drug given as monotherapy. Mild hypoglycaemia was the most frequently reported adverse event (1.3% of patients) after treatment with nateglinide 120 mg 3 times daily in a 16-week clinical study. No clinically significant abnormalities in laboratory results, ECGs, vital signs or physical examination findings have been noted in patients taking the drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11031747
An early defect in Type 2 diabetes is the loss of acute insulin release after food intake, which causes prolonged elevation of postprandial glucose levels. Suppressing postprandial hyperglycemia is considered to be very important for preventing diabetic complications. Sulfonylureas are well-known insulin secretagogues and have been widely used in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. These agents, however, do not appear to be able to ameliorate impairment of the first phase of insulin secretion and postprandial hyperglycemia. Nateglinide, which is a derivative of D-phenylalanine, is a non-sulfonylurea insulin secretagogue. Although the in vitro insulin-releasing effect of nateglinide is similar to that of sulfonylureas, its hypoglycemic effect is more rapid and short lasting. The in vivo unique pharmacodynamic profile of nateglinide is likely to result from its rapid absorption and elimination. This novel antidiabetic agent has made it possible to compensate for the impaired first phase insulin response and thus suppresses postprandial hyperglycemia. In clinical trials, nateglinide reduced prandial glucose excursion and improved early phase of insulin release dose-dependently after 12 weeks treatment. Nateglinide is a highly physiologic mealtime glucose regulator, which rapidly increases insulin secretion when taken before meals, mimicking early-phase insulin release lost in patients with Type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11036118
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus are rarely treated with a sulfonylurea drug, because of concern about teratogenicity and neonatal hypoglycemia. There is little information about the efficacy of these drugs in this group of women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11036125
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11060717
Repaglinide (NovoNorm((R))) is a novel oral antidiabetic agent, the first of a new class of insulin secretagogues known as the prandial glucose regulators to be approved for use in patients with Type 2 diabetes. Prandial glucose regulation is aimed at restoring the first-phase insulin response that follows consumption of a meal, which is missing in patients with Type 2 diabetes. After repaglinide administration, the resulting insulin profile reflects that of healthy individuals more closely, providing tighter glycaemic control and reducing the risk of hypoglycaemic events. Repaglinide is quickly absorbed and rapidly eliminated through biliary excretion, making it suitable for use in patients with renal impairment. It appears in the bloodstream within 15 to 30 min of dosing, stimulating short-term insulin release from the pancreatic beta-cells by binding to a unique site on the beta-cell membrane. Rapid elimination ensures that postprandial insulin levels quickly return to preprandial levels as the high prandial glucose level subsides. Repaglinide is given on a 'one meal, one tablet; no meal, no tablet' basis. It is particularly effective in patients who have not previously been treated with an oral antidiabetic agent, significantly reducing glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) levels by 1.6%. It also offers increased mealtime flexibility and safety, compared with other oral antidiabetic agents. As a result of the short plasma half-life and lack of accumulation of repaglinide with repeated dosing, the risk of between-meal and nocturnal hypoglycaemia is substantially reduced compared with other oral antidiabetic agents. Repaglinide acts synergistically with metformin, consistently improving glycaemic control in patients who were insufficiently controlled by metformin alone. Results from recent studies have shown similar synergistic effects with neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH)-insulin or troglitazone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11060747
Insulin resistance is the predominant early pathological defect in Type 2 diabetes. As well as being a risk factor for the development of Type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance is also associated with increased cardiovascular risk and other metabolic disturbances including visceral adiposity, hyperinsulinaemia, impaired glucose tolerance, hypertension and dyslipidaemia [1-4]. The newest approach to oral antidiabetic therapy is to target improvements in insulin sensitivity at muscle, adipose tissue and hepatic level. This results in improvements in glycaemic control and other features of the insulin resistance syndrome, with potential long-term benefits in preventing/delaying the onset of diabetic complications and macrovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11070748
Thirty-five patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes (NIDDM) were treated and followed up for 24 weeks. Six of whom were managed with diet and/or metformin, nine received glibenclamide, twelve had a combination of metformin and glibenclamide, while the remaining eight patients received metformin and/or some other type of sulphonylurea (chlorpropamide or glipizide). By an analysis of variance, the different drug regimes showed equivalent glycaemic controlling effects, but the influence on dyslipidaemia was variable within the treatment groups, while these changes were insignificant between the groups. It is thus concluded that commonly used oral hypoglycaemic agents do not adversely affect plasma lipid levels in Nigerian patients with NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11092289
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of nateglinide and metformin alone and in combination in type 2 diabetic patients inadequately controlled by diet, focusing on changes in HbA1c, fasting plasma glucose (FPG), and mealtime glucose excursions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11116534
Hypoglycemic, diuretic and hypocholesterolemic effects of roots of W. somnifera (ashvagandha) were assessed on human subjects. Six mild NIDDM subjects and six mild hypercholesterolemic subjects were treated with the powder of roots of W. somnifera for 30 days. Suitable parameters were studied in the blood and urine samples of the subjects along with dietary pattern before and at the end of treatment period. Decrease in blood glucose was comparable to that of an oral hypoglycemic drug. Significant increase in urine sodium, urine volume, significant decrease in serum cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL (low density lipoproteins) and VLDL (very low density lipoproteins) cholesterol were observed indicating that root of W. somnifera is a potential source of hypoglycemic, diuretic and hypocholesterolemic agents. Clinical observations revealed no adverse effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11129129
Although the diagnosis of type 2 (noninsulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus is made when blood glucose levels exceed values which increase the risk of microvascular complications, macrovascular disease is the major complication of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Both epidemiological and prospective data have demonstrated that treatment of hyperglycaemia is markedly effective in reducing the risk of microvascular disease but is less potent in reducing that of myocardial infarction, stroke and peripheral vascular disease. Treatment of other cardiovascular risk factors, although by definition less prevalent than hyperglycaemia, appears to be more effective in preventing macrovascular disease than treatment of hyperglycaemia. In recent years, data from intervention trials have suggested that greater benefits with respect to the prevention of macrovascular disease can be achieved by effective treatment of hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia, and by the use of small doses of aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) than by treating hyperglycaemia alone. On the other hand, the UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), which examined the impact of intensive glucose and blood pressure (BP) control on micro- and macrovascular complications, is the only intervention trial to include only patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The UKPDS data, the epidemic increase in the number of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and their high cardiovascular risk have, however, initiated several new trials addressing, in particular, the possible benefits of treatment of the most common form of dyslipidaemia (high serum triglyceride and low high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels) in these patients. Type 2 diabetes mellitus is thus a disease associated with a high vascular risk, where the majority of patients need, and are likely to benefit from, pharmacological treatment of several cardiovascular risk factors provided treatment targets have not been achieved by life-style modification.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11130936
The importance of glucose control in reducing the complications of diabetes mellitus has been clearly demonstrated. The emergency physician routinely is expected to treat a wide range of problems related to this disease, including making the initial diagnosis of type 2 and occasionally type 1 diabetes. Also common are patients with poorly controlled diabetes. The recent introduction of new classes of agents to lower blood glucose, especially in type 2 diabetes, should improve the control in this category of patient and reduce the complication rate. Some of these agents, such as troglitazone, have potentially fatal complications and require careful monitoring. Emergency physicians should be aware of the common complications of these drugs because patients can present to the ED with them. Hypoglycemia, a common cause of 911 calls and emergency visits, is not a side effect of either metformin or acarbose. Insulin lispro has improved postprandial glycemic control for type 1 and some insulin-requiring type 2 diabetics. Hypoglycemia is less of a risk with insulin lispro, and quality of life is better with this rapidly acting insulin. Newer methods of insulin delivery, such as continuous subcutaneous infusion, have greatly improved glucose control, given greater freedom to patients, and reduced the risks of hypoglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11136298
To study the effects of rifampicin on the pharmacokinetics and pharmaco-dynamics of glimepiride, a new sulphonylurea antidiabetic drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11168335
To prospectively determine the frequency of remission and possible mechanism of beta cell recovery in non-Whites with Type 2 diabetes mellitus in the setting of intensive glycaemic regulation using pharmacological agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11185672
Two randomized crossover studies were conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (including food effect) of fixed-combination metformin/glyburide tablets. Pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of two strengths (500 mg/2.5 mg and 500 mg/5 mg) of metformin/glyburide tablets were assessed relative to coadministered metformin and glyburide tablets in study 1. The effect of a high-fat meal on the bioavailability of a metformin/glyburide (500 mg/5 mg) tablet was assessed relative to the fasted condition in study 2. The fixed combination metformin/glyburide tablets showed bioequivalence for the metformin component with the reference metformin tablet and comparable bioavailability for the glyburide component with the reference glyburide tablet. Food does not appear to affect the bioavailability of either component to an appreciable extent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11194214
This double-blind randomized placebo-controlled parallel group study assessed the efficacy and safety (with particular regard to body weight and hypoglycemia) of repaglinide when used in a flexible mealtime dosing regimen in a situation close to everyday clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11194240
Because a pseudonormal pattern of ventricular filling has never been considered in studies that reported a prevalence of left ventricular diastolic dysfunction (LVDD) between 20 and 40%, our aim was to more completely evaluate the prevalence of LVDD in subjects with diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11194245
This study was designed to compare the pharmacodynamic effects of single doses of nateglinide (A-4166), repaglinide, and placebo on mealtime insulin secretion and glycemic control in healthy subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11200307
Diabetes mellitus is a major health problem in the world. Several clinical trials have shown that some of the major complications of diabetes mellitus can be partially prevented or delayed by intensive glycaemic control. However, there are benefits and risks in aiming for near normal blood glucose levels. Intensive glycaemic control delays the onset and progression of retinopathy, nephropathy and neuropathy. Epidemiological and observational studies have shown that cardiovascular events may be correlated with the severity and duration of diabetes mellitus, but major randomised trials have only shown weak and nonsignificant benefits of intensive glycaemic management in decreasing event rates. A modest improvement in lipid profile results from blood glucose control although, in the majority of cases, not enough to reach current targets. Detrimental effects of intensive glycaemic control include bodyweight gain and hypoglycaemia. Controversial issues in the management of patients with diabetes mellitus include the unproven increase in cardiovascular morbidity from sulphonylureas and hyperinsulinaemia, and the still unknown long term effects of newer oral antihyperglycaemic agents alone or in combination with traditional therapies (such as sulphonylureas and metformin). It is important to individualise management in setting glycaemic goals. Control of cardiovascular risk factors through blood pressure and lipid control and treatment with aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) and ACE inhibitors have consistently shown benefits in the prevention of both macro- and microvascular complications in patients with diabetes mellitus; these measures deserve priority.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11200947
The insulin secretory pattern as a phenotype of type 2 diabetes is an impairment in the rapid, pulsatile secretion of insulin in response to a rise in blood glucose after meal-intake. The restoration of endogenous rapid insulin secretion after oral glucose load was established for the first time by using nateglinide, which is a newly developed insulin secretagogue, in obese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. It was clearly demonstrated that with nateglinide, serum insulin levels were quickly raised, and glycemic response curves were almost normalized with the same amount of insulin secretion during 180 min. Therefore, the lack of rapid, pulsatile secretion of insulin in response to glycemic rise after oral glucose load, rather than insulin resistance, is responsible for postprandial glycemic response in obese type 2 diabetes patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11214781
The effects and kinetics of oral glibenclamide (Gb) and glipizide (Gz) were studied in Caucasian and Chinese patients (ten in each group) with type-2 diabetes. In randomised order, 2.5 mg Gb, 2.5 mg Gz or placebo was given orally before the administration of 75 g oral glucose. Concentrations of insulin and proinsulin were determined using radioimmunoassay (RIA) without cross-reactivities, and sulphonylurea concentrations were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). There were no significant interethnic differences in Gb or Gz effects whether on glucose, insulin or proinsulin/insulin ratio at any time point. Following Gz, however, Chinese patients had greater increments of serum proinsulin at 10-30 min compared with Caucasians. Apart from the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) of Gz being higher among the Chinese, no significant interethnic differences in pharmacokinetics were found. It appears that the same dosage principles could be used for Caucasian and Chinese patients with type-2 diabetes when Gb or Gz are prescribed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11220549
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11225164
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11225747
This study evaluated the relation of leptin with glycaemic control and the effect of 14 days of diet, or diet combined with gliclazide, glipizide-GITS or metformin treatment, on leptin concentration in 51 female patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Leptin levels were similar both at baseline and after treatment in diabetic and control groups. Diabetic patients with basal fasting plasma glucose (FPG) < 10 mmol/l or with basal postprandial plasma glucose (PPPG) < 13.9 mmol/l had significantly higher leptin levels than diabetic patients with basal FPG > or = 10 mmol/l or with basal PPPG > or = 13.9 mmol/l (19.6+/-8.7 vs. 13.65+/-5.4 microg/l, p < 0.05; and 20.2+/-7.9 vs. 12.9+/-5.2 microg/l, p < 0.05, respectively). Mode of treatment did not influence leptin levels. Delta leptin showed a weak correlation with basal FPG (r = 0.346; p < 0.05), basal and post-treatment PPPG (r = 0.335, p < 0.05 and r = 0.325, p < 0.05, respectively) and a moderate correlation with post-treatment FPG (r = 0.391, p < 0.01). In conclusion, leptin level is not affected by the presence of type 2 diabetes mellitus and by short-term treatment with diet or oral antidiabetic drugs but is directly related to glycaemic control in female patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11228758
To assess the effect of oral antihyperglycaemic therapy on fasting proinsulin and the relation between proinsulin levels and cardiovascular risk factors in type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11232737
The principles of managing type 2 diabetes mellitus in the elderly are no different from those in younger patients, but the priorities and therapeutic strategies need to be cautiously individualised. The objectives of treatment are to improve glycaemic control in a stepwise approach that involves nonpharmacological methods including diet and exercise, and pharmacological therapy including mixtures of oral antihyperglycaemic agents alone or in combination with insulin. Although the goals of treatment may be the same for elderly and younger patients, certain aspects of type 2 diabetes in the elderly require special consideration. Treatment decisions are influenced by age and life expectancy, comorbid conditions and severity of the vascular complications. Adherence to dietary therapy, physical activity, and medication regimens may be compromised by comorbid conditions and psychosocial limitations. Drug-induced hypoglycaemia has been the main consideration and the most serious potential complication. In addition, the long term macrovascular and microvascular complications of type 2 diabetes are a source of significant morbidity and mortality. Indeed, vascular and neuropathic complications are already present at the time of diagnosis in a significant number of patients, and the impact of improved diabetes control depends on the age and life expectancy of the patient. Age-related changes in pharmacokinetics and the potential for adverse effects and drug interactions should also be considered when choosing appropriate pharmacological therapy. In general, a conservative and stepwise approach to the treatment of the elderly patient with type 2 diabetes is suggested; treatment may be initiated with monotherapy, followed by early intervention with a combination of oral agents including a sulphonylurea as a foundation insulin secretagogue in addition to a supplemental insulin sensitiser. Insulin therapy is eventually required if significant hyperglycaemia [glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) >8%] persists despite oral combination therapy. Combination therapy with evening insulin and a long-acting sulphonylurea such as glimepiride is an effective strategy to improve hyperglycaemia in the elderly patient with type 2 diabetes in whom polypharmacy with oral agents is unsuccessful. In addition, such a regimen is simple to follow for the patient who may not be able to adhere to a more complicated insulin regimen. Hyperglycaemia in the elderly can be managed well with practical intervention and a straightforward treatment plan to enhance compliance. Optimal glycaemic control should be possible for every patient if treatment is individualised; however, strict glycaemic control may not be achievable in all patients or even desirable in many elderly patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11257323
Renal hyperfiltration and albuminuria have a deleterious effect on kidney function. Therefore, we studied the effect of metformin on blood pressure, renal hemodynamics, and microalbuminuria in type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11273476
The study was performed to see that, whether metabolic control and response to treatment in freshly diagnosed patients of type 2 diabetes mellitus is affected by primary pathology (hyperinsulinemia/inappropriate insulin secretion).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11277315
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11289470
We have demonstrated high heritability of insulin secretion measured as acute insulin response to glucose times insulin sensitivity (disposition index). Furthermore, we showed that obese normoglycemic family members of a type 2 diabetic proband failed to compensate for the insulin resistance of obesity by increasing insulin secretion. In this study, we tested the primary hypotheses that previously described variants in the pancreatic sulfonylurea receptor gene (SUR1 or ABCC8), glucokinase (GCK) gene, or hepatocyte nuclear factor 1alpha (TCF1 or HNF1alpha) gene contribute to the inherited deficiencies of insulin secretion and beta-cell compensation to insulin resistance, as well as the secondary hypotheses that these variants altered insulin sensitivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11289484
To examine whether a rise in blood pressure could be detected before the onset of microalbuminuria (MA) in a cohort of children followed from diagnosis of type 1 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11301562
This study investigated the effects of oral combined hormone replacement therapy (OCHRT) on lipid concentrations and subpopulation distribution of lipoproteins in nine postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes mellitus and moderate glycemic control. After 16 weeks of continuous daily therapy of conjugated estrogens 0.625 mg and medroxyprogesterone 2.5 mg, the mean concentration of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol showed a statistically significant increase of 16.7%, predominantly in the HDL2 subfraction. No statistically significant changes in mean concentrations of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) triglycerides, apolipoprotein A1, or apolipoprotein B were evident. Likewise, no changes were found in the average diameter of VLDL, LDL, or HDL particles; triglyceride concentrations of VLDL subfractions; cholesterol concentrations of LDL subfractions; or chemical composition of plasma LDL. These findings lend further support to the use of OCHRT in postmenopausal women with diabetes to decrease their risk for coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11305519
In patients with cirrhosis, glucose may induce splanchnic and renal vasodilation. Since the antidiabetic sulfonylurea glibenclamide is known to induce splanchnic and renal vasoconstriction in portal hypertensive animals, this drug may inhibit glucose-induced hemodynamic responses in patients with cirrhosis. The aim of the present study was to investigate, in patients with cirrhosis, the short-term effects of glibenclamide on hemodynamic and humoral responses to glucose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11315840
Sulfonylureas block the activation of vascular potassium-dependent ATP channels and impair the vasodilating response to ischcmia in nondiabetic individuals, but it is not know whether this occurs in type 2 diabetic patients under chronic treatment with these drugs. Glimepiride, a new sulfonylurea, apparently has no cardiovascular interactions. The aim of our study was to compare the effect of the widely used compound glibenclamide, the pancreas-specific glimepiride, and diet treatment alone on brachial artery response to acute forearm ischemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11315844
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11315848
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11336617
This article reviews the pharmacological and clinical aspects of glimepiride, the latest second-generation sulfonylurea for treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). Glimepiride therapy ameliorates the relative insulin secretory deficit found in most patients with Type 2 DM. It is a direct insulin secretagogue; indirectly, it also increases insulin secretion in response to fuels such as glucose. Its action to augment insulin secretion requires binding to a high affinity sulfonylurea receptor, which results in closure of ATP-sensitive potassium channels in the beta-cells of the pancreas. The question has been raised whether insulin secretagogues by acting on vascular or myocardial potassium channels may prevent ischaemic preconditioning, a physiological adaptation that could affect the outcome of coronary heart disease, but there is evidence against this concern being applicable to glimepiride. Glimepiride's antihyperglycaemic efficacy is equal to other secretagogues. It has pharmacokinetic properties that make it less prone to cause hypoglycaemia in renal dysfunction than some other insulin secretagogues, particularly glyburide (also known as glibenclamide in Europe). Its convenient once daily dosing may enhance compliance for diabetic patients who often also require medications for other co-morbid conditions, such as hypertension, hyperlipidaemia and cardiac disease. Glimepiride is approved for monotherapy, for combination with metformin and with insulin. Clinically, its reduced risk of hypoglycaemia makes it preferable to some other insulin secretagogues when attempting to achieve recommended glycaemic control (haemoglobin A(1c) (HgbA(1c)) 7%). Using suppertime neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) and regular insulin with morning glimepiride in overweight diabetic patients achieves glycaemic goals more quickly than insulin alone and with lower insulin doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11353879
In type 2 diabetes, the primary and secondary prevention of long-term micro- and macrovascular complications requires a control of blood glucose levels 24 hours a day. The present study was undertaken to assess the effect of a new formulation of gliclazide administered once daily, gliclazide modified release, on plasma glucose levels over 24 hours.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11375357
This study compared the effects of nateglinide, glyburide, and placebo on postmeal glucose excursions and insulin secretion in previously diet-treated patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11376359
To study the effects of supplementation with organic and inorganic chromium on glucose tolerance, serum lipids, and drug dosage in type 2 diabetes patients, in the hope of finding a better and more economical method of control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11394726
Because type 2 diabetes is a progressive condition, >50% of all patients whose disease is initially controlled with diet and exercise will eventually need single or multiple pharmacologic agents to maintain adequate glycemic control. Although current treatment standards require that combination therapy be instituted only after the failure of monotherapy, the results of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial and the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study suggest that aggressive initial treatment is crucial to slowing the evolution of long-term complications associated with this disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11402628
In the first report (Journal of Clinical Pharmacology 2000; 40:647-654), it was shown that ingestion of 120 mg of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) daily for 3 months by normal glucose-tolerant individuals caused a significant increase in pancreatic beta-cell insulin and C-peptide response, measured as the area under the curve (AUC0-->120) during a 2-hour standard (75 g) oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). This follow-up study was designed to determine the effect of the same Ginkgo biloba treatment on glucose-stimulated pancreatic beta-cell function in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) subjects. In diet-controlled subjects (fasting plasma glucose [FPG], 117 +/- 16 mg/dl; fasting plasma insulin [FPI], 29 +/- 8 microU/ml; n = 6), ingestion of Ginkgo biloba produced no significant effect on the insulin AUC0-->120 (193 +/- 53 vs. 182 +/- 58 microU/ml/h, before and after ingesting Ginkgo biloba, respectively). In hyperinsulinemic NIDDM subjects taking oral hypoglycemic medications (n = 6) (FPG 143 +/- 48 mg/dl; FPI 46 +/- 13 microU/ml), ingestion of Ginkgo biloba caused blunted plasma insulin levels from 30 to 120 minutes during the OGTT, leading to a reduction of the insulin AUC0-->120 (199 +/- 33 vs. 147 +/- 58 microU/ml/h, before and after Ginkgo biloba, respectively). The C-peptide levels increased, and so the AUC0-->120 did not parallel the insulin AUC0-->120, creating a dissimilar insulin/C-peptide ratio indicative of an enhanced hepatic extraction of insulin relative to C-peptide. Thus, in pancreatic beta-cells that are already maximally stimulated, ingestion of Ginkgo biloba may cause a reduction in plasma insulin levels. Only in NIDDM subjects with pancreatic exhaustion (FPG 152 +/- 46 mg/dl; FPI 16 +/- 8 microU/ml; n = 8), who also took oral hypoglycemic agents, did Ginkgo biloba ingestion significantly increase pancreatic beta-cell function in response to glucose loading (insulin AUC0-->120 increased from 51 +/- 29 to 98 +/- 20 microU/ml/h, p < 0.0001), paralleled by a C-peptide AUC0-->120 increase from 7.2 +/- 2.8 to 13.7 +/- 6.8 (p < 0.0001). Whether this increase is due to "resuscitation" of previously exhausted islets or increased activity of only the remaining functional islets is unclear. However, not even in this group did increased pancreatic beta-cell activity cause a reduction of blood glucose during the OGTT. It is concluded that ingestion of Ginkgo biloba extract by an NIDDM subject may increase the hepatic metabolic clearance rate of not only insulin but also the hypoglycemic agents. The result is reduced insulin-mediated glucose metabolism and elevated blood glucose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11410214
Troglitazone, the first in the thiazolidinedione class of oral hypoglycaemic agents, was launched in the USA in March, 1997. It reached Europe later that year, only to be withdrawn within weeks on the grounds of liver toxicity. Meanwhile it went on to generate sales of over $2 billion in the USA, and caused at least 90 cases of liver failure (70 resulting in death or transplantation) before it was withdrawn in March, 2000. Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone reached the US market in 1999 as first-line agents to be used alone or in combination with other drugs, but in Europe the same dossiers were used one year later to apply for a limited licence as second-line agents restricted to oral combination therapy. How should we use the glitazones? And how did they achieve blockbuster status without any clear evidence of advantage over existing therapy?

Abstract for pubmed ID 11421558
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11423506
This randomized crossover double-blind placebo-controlled study aimed to assess the efficacy of nateglinide (A-4166), a novel phenylalanine-derived insulin secretagogue, in type 2 diabetic subjects while fasting and 5 min before a standard meal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11448655
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of pioglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11449877
The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, clinical efficacy, adverse effects, interactions, and dosage of nateglinide are reviewed. Nateglinide is an oral hypoglycemic agent approved for use alone or in combination with metformin as an adjunct to diet and exercise for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Nateglinide, an amino acid derivative of D-phenylalanine, stimulates the secretion of insulin by binding to the ATP potassium channels in pancreatic beta cells. The result is an increase in beta-cell calcium influx, which leads to rapid, short-lived insulin release. The drug is rapidly and completely absorbed in the small intestine. The estimated bioavailability is 72%. Nateglinide is highly bound to plasma proteins, is metabolized extensively by the liver, and has an elimination half-life of 1.4 hours. Several clinical trials of nateglinide, alone and in combination with other oral hypoglycemic agents, have found the drug to be safe, effective, and well tolerated. The most common adverse effects are nausea, diarrhea, dizziness, and lightheadedness. There is a potential for interactions between nateglinide and medications affected by the cytochrome P-450 isoenzyme system. Dosage regimens ranging from 60 to 240 mg have been evaluated. The maximum effective dosage is 120 mg taken 10 minutes before meals three times a day. Nateglinide is an alternative to second-generation sulfonylureas for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Additional comparative trials are needed to fully elucidate nateglinide's role.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11450504
An extrapancreatic effect of sulfonylureas has been postulated. However, in vivo results have been disputed because the amelioration of insulin action that follows sulfonylurea may represent the relief from glucose toxicity rather than a direct effect of the drug. Therefore, we studied the hypoglycemic action of gliclazide acutely and after 2 months of therapy in seven type 2 diabetic patients. All patients received a 240-minute i.v. glucose infusion with [3-3H]glucose. In a random order, 160 mg gliclazide (study 1) or placebo (study 2) was given orally before glucose infusion. Finally, the effect of 160 mg gliclazide was reassessed after a two-month treatment with the same sulfonylurea (80 mg t.i.d.). Basal plasma glucose, insulin, C-peptide and endogenous glucose production (EGP) were similar before the two initial studies. During glucose infusion, EGP was more suppressed after gliclazide in spite of comparable increase in plasma insulin and C-peptide. After the two-month therapy, basal plasma glucose levels and HbA1c were lower while plasma insulin and C-peptide were higher with respect to baseline (p < 0.05). Gliclazide further reduced plasma glucose, the incremental area above baseline, and EGP during glucose infusion, while plasma insulin and C-peptide achieved higher plateaus (p < 0.05). When data were pooled, plasma glucose concentration and EGP correlated both in the basal state (r = 0.71) and during the last hour of glucose infusion (r = 0.84; both p < 0.05). These data suggest that gliclazide enhances the suppression of EGP induced by insulin and that this effect is greater with chronic treatment because of concomitant improvement of insulin secretion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11460818
A sulfonylurea--usually glyburide--plus metformin constitute the most widely used oral antihyperglycemic combination in clinical practice. Both medications present undesirable cardiovascular effects. The issue whether the adverse effects of each of these pharmacologic agents may be additive and detrimental to the prognosis for coronary patients has not yet been specifically addressed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11467343
Alpha-Lipoic acid (LA) is a disulfide compound that is produced in small quantities in cells, and functions naturally as a co-enzyme in the pyruvate dehydrogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase mitochondrial enzyme complexes. In pharmacological doses, LA is a multifunctional antioxidant. LA has been used in Germany for over 30 years for the treatment of diabetes-induced neuropathy. In patients with type 2 diabetes, recent studies have reported that intravenous (i.v.) infusion of LA increases insulin-mediated glucose disposal, whereas oral administration of LA has only marginal effects. If the limitations of oral therapy can be overcome, LA could emerge as a safe and effective adjunctive antidiabetic agent with insulin sensitizing activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11472451
To evaluate the long-term effectiveness and safety of repaglinide, a novel prandial glucose regulator, in comparison with glipizide in the treatment of patients with Type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11473038
The high-frequency oscillatory pattern of insulin release is disturbed in type 2 diabetes. Although sulfonylurea drugs are widely used for the treatment of this disease, their effect on insulin release patterns is not well established. The aim of the present study was to assess the impact of acute treatment and 5 weeks of sulfonylurea (gliclazide) treatment on insulin secretory dynamics in type 2 diabetic patients. To this end, 10 patients with type 2 diabetes (age 53 +/- 2 years, BMI 27.5 +/- 1.1 kg/m(2), fasting plasma glucose 9.8 +/- 0.8 mmol/l, HbA(1c) 7.5 +/- 0.3%) were studied in a double-blind placebo-controlled prospective crossover design. Patients received 40-80 mg gliclazide/placebo twice daily for 5 weeks with a 6-week washout period intervening. Insulin pulsatility was assessed by 1-min interval blood sampling for 75 min 1) under baseline conditions (baseline), 2) 3 h after the first dose (80 mg) of gliclazide (acute) with the plasma glucose concentration clamped at the baseline value, 3) after 5 weeks of treatment (5 weeks), and 4) after 5 weeks of treatment with the plasma glucose concentration clamped during the sampling at the value of the baseline assessment (5 weeks-elevated). Serum insulin concentration time series were analyzed by deconvolution, approximate entropy (ApEn), and spectral and autocorrelation methods to quantitate pulsatility and regularity. The P values given are gliclazide versus placebo; results are means +/- SE. Fasting plasma glucose was reduced after gliclazide treatment (baseline vs. 5 weeks: gliclazide, 10.0 +/- 0.9 vs. 7.8 +/- 0.6 mmol/l; placebo, 10.0 +/- 0.8 vs. 11.0 +/- 0.9 mmol/l, P = 0.001). Insulin secretory burst mass was increased (baseline vs. acute: gliclazide, 43.0 +/- 12.0 vs. 61.0 +/- 17.0 pmol. l(-1). pulse(-1); placebo, 36.1 +/- 8.4 vs. 30.3 +/- 7.4 pmol. l(-1). pulse(-1), P = 0.047; 5 weeks-elevated: gliclazide vs. placebo, 49.7 +/- 13.3 vs. 37.1 +/- 9.5 pmol. l(-1). pulse(-1), P < 0.05) with a similar rise in burst amplitude. Basal (i.e., nonoscillatory) insulin secretion also increased (baseline vs. acute: gliclazide, 8.5 +/- 2.2 vs. 16.7 +/- 4.3 pmol. l(-1). pulse(-1); placebo, 5.9 +/- 0.9 vs. 7.2 +/- 0.9 pmol. l(-1). pulse(-1), P = 0.03; 5 weeks-elevated: gliclazide vs. placebo, 12.2 +/- 2.5 vs. 9.4 +/- 2.1 pmol. l(-1). pulse(-1), P = 0.016). The frequency and regularity of insulin pulses were not modified significantly by the antidiabetic therapy. There was, however, a correlation between individual values for the acute improvement of regularity, as measured by ApEn, and the decrease in fasting plasma glucose during short-term (5-week) gliclazide treatment (r = 0.74, P = 0.014, and r = 0.77, P = 0.009, for fine and coarse ApEn, respectively). In conclusion, the sulfonylurea agent gliclazide augments insulin secretion by concurrently increasing pulse mass and basal insulin secretion without changing secretory burst frequency or regularity. The data suggest a possible relationship between the improvement in short-term glycemic control and the acute improvement of regularity of the in vivo insulin release process.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11473078
Clinical trials provide information regarding the safety and efficacy of medications used to manage type 2 diabetes but do not elucidate drug effectiveness in a typical managed care environment. The aim of this study was to characterize "real-world" drug utilization patterns from both a prescriber and a patient perspective.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11475233
Hyperglycaemia in type 2 diabetes results from reduced beta-cell function and insulin resistance. The treatment of type 2 diabetes must be targeted against both conditions to reduce symptoms of hyperglycaemia and the risk of diabetic late complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11475269
The pharmacodynamics and dose-response relationship of repaglinide, a novel oral hypoglycemic agent, were evaluated in steady-state treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11496727
Repaglinide (NovoNorm) is an antidiabetic oral agent of the new glinide class with insulinotropic activity. Its action on insulin secretion is more rapid and shorter than that of sulphonylurea compounds. Thanks to these properties, repaglinide is able to better control postprandial hyperglycaemia and is associated with a lower risk of delayed hypoglycaemic episodes. It is indicated for the treatment of type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus as monotherapy, after diet failure, or in combination with metformin, when the biguanide is insufficient. NovoNorm is commercialized as tablets of 0.5, 1 and 2 mg, to be taken just before each meal. Initial dosis should be 0.5 mg before meal in diabetic patients on diet alone or 1 mg before meal in patients already receiving an hypoglycaemic agent. If necessary, the dosis should be progressively increased, depending on the individual response, up to 4 mg before meal (maximal daily dosage of 16 mg), in order to optimize blood glucose control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11520304
To compare prescribing, dosage and blood glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes in two communities with differences in anti-hyperglycaemic drug utilization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11525087
In about 25% of type 2 diabetes patients, good diabetes control is not attainable with oral blood-glucose lowering drugs. Furthermore, in many people with diabetes the disease deteriorates, despite the use of blood-glucose lowering medication, due to the decline of the pancreatic beta cells. The development of new drugs, such as repaglinide, is therefore important. Repaglinide is an insulin secretion enhancer with a different mechanism of action to the sulphonylureas, which means it does not continuously stimulate insulin secretion. The tablets should be taken with each meal. After oral ingestion repaglinide is resorbed quickly, with a half-life of between 30 minutes to an hour. In clinical trials repaglinide has been found to be equally effective as glibenclamide. Repaglinide has been found to be particularly effective in sulphonylurea-nave patients. Skipping the meal plus tablet combination results in less frequent hypoglycaemic symptoms compared to glibenclamide. Repaglinide results in greater reductions in postprandial glucose levels than glibenclamide. It does not affect insulin resistance. Long-term data are lacking, both with regard to efficacy and side effects. Repaglinide deserves a place in the diabetes treatment of newly-diagnosed type 2 diabetes patients who are well-informed about their disease, as well as in patients with renal failure. It should also be considered for patients whose diabetes is poorly controlled on metformin monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11529585
Patients with type 2 diabetes have abnormal endothelial function but it is not certain whether improvements in glycaemic control will improve endothelial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11534426
United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) has demonstrated definitively that patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) benefit from intensive blood glucose control, because it diminishes the risk to develop microvascular complications. The therapeutic targets in the type 2 DM have been modified in order to reduce the risk of these complications. However, aggressive treatment may be disastrous for patients with microvascular complications and/or an increased risk of hypoglycemic unawareness, and neither it would be advised in older patients or with short life expectancy. The available drugs for treatment of type 2 DM offer many options for achieving these therapeutic targets, based on the need of the individual patient. In this job we review the targets in the metabolic control of type 2 DM and their backgrounds, and we describe briefly the therapeutic strategy recommended for reaching these targets, with special attention to the new oral antidiabetic agents (repaglinide and thiazolidinediones).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11547217
Coronary artery, cerebrovascular and peripheral vascular disease, are the principal causes of morbidity and mortality in type 2 diabetes mellitus. The accelerated macrovascular disease in type 2 diabetes mellitus is due partly to the increased incidence of cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, obesity and dyslipidemia. Advanced glycation end products, glycoxidised and oxidized low-density lipoproteins and reactive oxygen species linked to hyperglycemia have all been identified in type 2 diabetes mellitus and could accelerate macroangiopathy. Hence, the resistance to insulin is an additional independent risk factor, in association with oxidant stress, dyslipidemias, and prothrombic/hypofibrinolytic states. The endothelium is a major organ involved by cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, inflammation, ageing, postmenopausal status, and smoking. Changes in endothelium function may lead to the coronary artery circulation being unable to cope with the increased metabolism of myocardial muscle independently of a reduced coronary artery diameter. The way endothelial function is altered in diabetic patients is not yet fully understood, but the loss of normal endothelial function could be involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic angiopathy, as endothelial dysfunction is associated with diabetic microangiopathy and macroangiopathy. Finally, recent reports indicate that an improved metabolic control in diabetic patients, whatever the treatment used, is associated with near normalization or restoration of normal endothelial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11553186
The aim of the study was to compare the pharmacokinetics and glucodynamics of insulin lispro and soluble human insulin following intramuscular (i.m.) injection in patients with Type 2 diabetes with secondary failure of sulphonylureas.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11553190
Secondary failure to oral hypoglycaemic agents, a common evolution of long-standing Type 2 diabetes, is usually assessed by non-standardized indices requiring fine clinical assessment, including hyperglycaemia resistant to maximum doses of sulphonylureas despite appropriate diet and follow-up. The goal of this study was to evaluate if HOMA, a modelized plasma insulin/glucose ratio allowing simple evaluation of residual insulin secretion and sensitivity, is a better predictor of the insulin requiring stage than clinical indices.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11560198
The thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone maleate works primarily to improve insulin sensitivity in muscle and adipose tissue. It may have additional pharmacologic effects, however, as its main target is peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma. Data using the homeostasis model assessment and proinsulin:insulin ratio in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus suggest that rosiglitazone may have the potential to sustain or improve beta-cell function. In these patients the drug reduces fasting plasma glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, insulin, and C-peptide. In clinical trials, rosiglitazone monotherapy significantly reduced glycosylated hemoglobin by 1.5% compared with placebo and led to significant improvements in glycemic control when given in combination with metformin, sulfonylureas, or insulin. A dosage of 4 mg twice/day significantly reduced fasting plasma glucose levels and produced comparable reductions in glycosylated hemoglobin compared with glyburide. Rosiglitazone has a low risk of gastrointestinal side effects and hypoglycemia, reduced insulin demand, potential sparing effects on beta-cells, and favorable drug interaction profile. Adverse events of clinical significance are edema, anemia, and weight gain. Premarketing data indicate no significant difference in liver enzyme elevations for rosiglitazone, placebo, or active controls. Another drug in the thiazolidinedione class, troglitazone, was associated with idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity and was removed from the market. Therefore, until long-term data are available for rosiglitazone, liver enzyme monitoring is recommended.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11563410
Nateglinide (Starlix, SDZ DJN 608 or A-4166), a new insulinotropic agent, is intended to be administered prior to a meal in order to improve early insulin release in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients. The effects of a meal on the oral bioavailability and pharmacodynamic actions of nateglinide were investigated. Twelve healthy male subjects completed this randomized, single-dose, four-way crossover study in which each subject received a 60 mg dose of nateglinide 10 minutes before the start of and immediately after a high-fat breakfast meal. In addition, each subject received a single 30 and 60 mg dose of nateglinide underfasting conditions. Plasma and urine concentrations of nateglinide were determined by an HPLC method while plasma glucose and insulin concentrations were measured by standard immunoassay methods. Compared to the fasted state, administration of nateglinide 10 minutes before the meal was associated with an increase in the rate of absorption (12% increase in Cmax and 52% decrease in tmax), while there was no significant effect on the extent of absorption (AUC). Alternatively, when nateglinide was given after the meal, a food effect was observed that was characterized by a decrease in the rate of absorption: 34% decrease in Cmax and a 22% increase in tmax but no significant effect on AUC. Nateglinide was rapidly eliminated with plasma t 1/2 = 1.4 hours. Its plasma renal clearance, 20.7 ml/min, appears to be due mostly to active tubular secretion. However, only 13% to 14% of the dose is recovered as nateglinide in the urine. The 30 and 60 mg tablets were dose proportional in terms of both AUC and Cmax; both tmax and t 1/2 were dose independent. Regardless of timing, the combination of a meal and nateglinide produced a larger increase in insulin levels than did nateglinide alone. Meal-related glucose excursions were eliminated when nateglinide was taken prior to the meal. Thus, the rapid onset/short duration stimulation of insulin release by nateglinide should allow good control of prandial hyperglycemia while limiting exposure to hyperinsulinemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11569941
Calyx Therapeutics is developing the insulin sensitizer, CLX-0901, as an antidiabetic agent. CLX-0901 is the synthetic analog of CLX-0900 which was originally isolated from a plant source. Phase I and toxicological studies indicate that the compound is safe and well tolerated [363764]. As of March 2001, phase II studies had commenced [402737]. Other antidiabetics being investigated by Calyx include CLX-0301, CLX-0921, CLX-0940, CLX-0100 and CLX-0101 [376032].

Abstract for pubmed ID 11574430
Insulin and glucose levels in response to premeal insulin lispro or repaglinide were evaluated in adult patients with cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) without fasting hyperglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11574434
Postchallenge hyperglycemia (PCH) is known to contribute to suboptimal glycemic control in adults with non-insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes. The objective of this study was to estimate the prevalence of PCH among individuals with diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11577798
Repaglinide, a carbamoylmethyl benzoic acid derivative, is the first of a new class of oral antidiabetic agents designed to normalise postprandial glucose excursions in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Like the sulphonylureas, repaglinide reduces blood glucose by stimulating insulin release from pancreatic beta-cells, but differs from these and other antidiabetic agents in its structure, binding profile, duration of action and mode of excretion. In clinical trials of up to 1-year's duration, repaglinide maintained or improved glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. In comparative, 1-year, double-blind, randomised trials (n = 256 to 544), patients receiving repaglinide (0.5 to 4mg before 3 daily meals) achieved similar glycaemic control to that in patients receiving glibenclamide (glyburide) < or = 15 mg/day and greater control than patients receiving glipizide < or = 15 mg/day. Changes from baseline in glycosylated haemoglobin and fasting blood glucose levels were similar between patients receiving repaglinide and glibenclamide in all studies; however, repaglinide was slightly better than glibenclamide in reducing postprandial blood glucose in I short term study (n = 192). Patients can vary their meal timetable with repaglinide: the glucose-lowering efficacy of repaglinide was similar for patients consuming 2, 3 or 4 meals a day. Repaglinide showed additive effects when used in combination with other oral antidiabetic agents including metformin, troglitazone, rosiglitazone and pioglitazone, and intermediate-acting insulin (NPH) given at bedtime. In 1-year trials, the most common adverse events reported in repaglinide recipients (n = 1,228) were hypoglycaemia (16%), upper respiratory tract infection (10%), rhinitis (7%), bronchitis (6%) and headache (9%). The overall incidence of hypoglycaemia was similar to that recorded in patients receiving glibenclamide, glipizide or gliclazide (n = 597) [18%]; however, the incidence of serious hypoglycaemia appears to be slightly higher in sulphonylurea recipients. Unlike glibenclamide, the risk of hypoglycaemia in patients receiving repaglinide was not increased when a meal was missed in 1 trial. In conclusion, repaglinide is a useful addition to the other currently available treatments for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Preprandial repaglinide has displayed antihyperglycaemic efficacy at least equal to that of various sulphonylureas and is associated with a reduced risk of serious hypoglycaemia. It is well tolerated in a wide range of patients, including the elderly, even if a meal is missed. Furthermore, glycaemic control is improved when repaglinide is used in combination with metformin. Thus, repaglinide should be considered for use in any patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus whose blood glucose cannot be controlled by diet or exercise alone, or as an adjunct in patients whose glucose levels are inadequately controlled on metformin alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11585005
The United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study has shown that tight glycaemic control significantly reduces microvascular complications in Type 2 diabetes, but the effects on macrovascular complications were less impressive and did not reach statistical significance. Epidemiological studies have shown that post-prandial hyperglycaemia, rather than fasting hyperglycaemia, is more closely related to cardiovascular complications. It is, therefore, possible that previous studies may have overlooked the possible benefits of tight control of post-prandial hyperglycaemia as an important factor in reducing the cardiovascular mortality. Nateglinide is a novel D-phenylalanine derivative that inhibits ATP-sensitive K+ channels in pancreatic beta-cells in the presence of glucose and thereby restores first phase insulin response in patients with Type 2 diabetes. This helps in reducing post-prandial glucose excursion. Combination studies with metformin have shown it to be effective in controlling hyperglycaemia. While metformin reduces the basal plasma glucose, nateglinide helps in controlling post-prandial peaks. Nateglinide provides a new therapeutic option for treating Type 2 diabetes by specifically targeting post-prandial hyperglycaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11678967
There are scarce data dealing with the degree of postprandial lipaemia after sulphonylurea administration. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of acute glibenclamide administration on postprandial lipaemia in Type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11678974
To compare the effect of glimepiride in combination with metformin with monotherapy of each drug on glycaemic control in Type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11679464
In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of sibutramine in combination with hypoglycemic drugs in obese type 2 diabetic women whose glucose levels were poorly regulated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11692183
We aimed to examine the promoter of SUR1 for genetic variation and to determine if variants were associated with Type II (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus or measures of beta-cell function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11715152
Two members of the group, thiazolidinediones, have been approved for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. These novel oral antihyperglycaemic agents reduce insulin resistance through binding to and activation of the nuclear receptor, PPAR gamma, with subsequent effects on the glucose and lipid homoeostasis. The compounds will probably exhibit beneficial effects on other facets of the metabolic syndrome. Their effectiveness on glycaemic control appears comparable, as assessed by the literature available. HbA1c is lowered by 1.0 to 1.5%. Both drugs are approved for combination therapy with either metformin or sulphonylureas, not as monotherapy or in combination with insulin. Disturbed heart function (NYHA I-IV) is a contra-indication. In contrast to troglitazone, there is so far no evidence of liver toxicity. In spite of the limited literature, it is anticipated that the present class of oral hypoglycaemic agents will turn out to be an important contribution to improving the metabolic control of patients with type 2 diabetes, if the safety profile remains unchanged in long-term studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11716156
Diabetes mellitus comprises a heterogeneous group of diseases that have in common the development of macro- and microvascular complications. It is now possible to identify subjects at high risk of Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes, especially in the patient's family members. Preventive interventions are quickly becoming available, and can help delay the onset of the disease and thereby reduce complications in these subjects. Furthermore the correct etiological diagnosis of diabetes is fundamental in providing the best treatment for the patient. Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) syndrome should be suspected in cases of a subtle onset of diabetes and autosomal dominant inheritance. Mitochondrial DNA mutations should be considered when a diabetic patient also suffers from deafness or if there is a family history of this combination in the mother side of the family. Atypical diabetes has to be identified by the physician to avoid mistakes when the patient enters the non-insulin-dependent phase. In the case of Wolfram's syndrome a gene analysis for each family member should be performed to identify heterozygote subjects. Recently, many discoveries in genetics help us better understand the pathogenesis of the diseases and diagnose the monogenic form of diabetes more easily. If all family members are followed in the same center, clues from the family history are readily available for differential diagnosis and preventive interventions can be established more effectively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11724081
To determine drug prescription patterns and the extent of conformity with World Health Organization/international Society of Hypertension (WHO/ISH) guidelines in diabetic hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11724096
To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, dosing guidelines, adverse effects, drug interactions, and clinical efficacy of nateglinide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11726007
Humalog Mix25 (Mix25) is a premixed insulin mixture of 25% insulin lispro and 75% neutral protamine lispro.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11728565
The loss of early-phase insulin secretion is an important and early event in the natural history of type 2 diabetes. Because a normal pattern of insulin secretion is essential for the effective control of postprandial metabolism, a rational basis for the development of agents that target early-phase insulin release exists. Conventional oral hypoglycaemic agents do not target, or adequately control, postprandial glycaemia. The emergence of new classes of oral agent with a more specific mode of action provides, for the first time, an opportunity to restore early-phase insulin release. One such drug class is the meglitinide analogues (repaglinide, nateglinide, and mitiglinide). These drugs are ideally suited for combination use with metformin. They could also prove effective in combination with a thiazolidinedione, a drug class that targets insulin resistance. Exogenous insulin is frequently required in the late management of type 2 diabetes. However, one hope for newer combinations of diabetic drugs is that the functional life of the beta cell can be extended, thereby delaying the need for insulin injections.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11735640
Orlistat is a nonsystemically acting gastric and pancreatic lipase inhibitor that limits the absorption of dietary fat. A retrospective pooled analysis of three 2-year, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trials involving patients with obesity revealed that orlistat recipients were more likely to experience an improvement, and less likely to experience a deterioration, in glucose tolerance status than placebo recipients. In comparison with placebo, orlistat recipients had significantly greater reductions in glycosylated haemoglobin and fasting plasma glucose levels in large, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled studies of 24 to 52 weeks' duration involving patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. In one such study, the dosage of concomitant sulphonylureas was able to be reduced in more orlistat than placebo recipients (43.2 vs 28.9%), with discontinuation of sulphonylurea therapy achieved in 11.7% of orlistat recipients. The most common adverse effects reported in orlistat recipients with type 2 diabetes mellitus relate to the gastrointestinal system and are similar to those reported in studies involving patients without type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11735645
Decreased insulin sensitivity plays a major role in various human diseases. particularly type 2 diabetes mellitus, and is associated with a higher risk of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular complications. Thiazolidinediones, more commonly termed glitazones, are the first drugs to specifically target muscular insulin resistance. They have proven efficacy for reducing plasma glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with diet alone, sulphonylureas, metformin or insulin. In addition, they are associated with some improvement of the cardiovascular risk profile. However, troglitazone, the first compound approved by the Food and Drug Administration in the US, proved to be hepatotoxic and was withdrawn from the market after the report of several dozen deaths or cases of severe hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation. It remains unclear whether or not hepatotoxicity is a class effect or is related to unique properties of troglitazone. Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone, two other glitazones, appear to have similar efficacy with regard to blood glucose control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus as compared with troglitazone. In controlled clinical trials, the incidence of significant (> or =3 x upper limit of normal) increases in liver enzyme levels (ALT in particular) was similar with rosiglitazone or pioglitazone as compared with placebo, whereas troglitazone was associated with a 3-fold greater incidence. In contrast to the numerous case reports of acute liver failure in patients receiving troglitzone, only a few case reports of hepatotoxicity have been reported in patients treated with rosiglitazone until now, with a causal relationship remaining uncertain. Furthermore, no single case of severe hepatotoxicity has been reported yet with pioglitazone. It should be mentioned that troglitazone, unlike pioglitazone and rosiglitazone, induces the cytochrome P450 isoform 3A4, which is partly responsible for its metabolism, and may be prone to drug interactions. Importantly enough, obesity, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus are associated with liver abnormalities, especially non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, independent of any pharmacological treatment. This association obviously complicates the selection of patients who are good candidates for a treatment with glitazones as well as the monitoring of liver tests after initiation of therapy with any thiazolidinedione compound. While regular monitoring of liver enzymes is still recommended and more long term data are desirable, current evidence from clinical trials and postmarketing experience in the US supports the conclusion that rosiglitazone and pioglitazone do not share the hepatotoxic profile of troglitazone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11751665
To investigate whether blood flow in normal and post-stenotic coronary arteries is altered by therapeutic doses of the sulfonylurea agent glibenclamide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11763159
Diabetes affects millions of people worldwide. The most common variants are type 1 diabetes with autoimmune destruction of the pancreatic beta-cells and type 2 diabetes with peripheral insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction. In spite of tremendous research, current pharmacological regimens are still sub-optimal for adequate blood glucose control. As a consequence, patients with diabetes are at significant risk for development of serious long-term complications, such as blindness and kidney disease. This review will discuss present and future strategies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes with a focus on the more recently recognized problems of beta-cell dysfunction and loss. The treatment strategies presented include promotion of beta-cell proliferation and differentiation by glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11763160
Pramlintide is a human amylin analog, under development by Amylin (originally in collaboration with Johnson & Johnson), as an adjunct with insulin for the potential prevention of complications of type I diabetes, and as a single agent for type II diabetes [279804], [295121], [305454]. In December 2000, Amylin submitted a US NDA seeking approval to market pramlintide as an adjunctive therapy for type 1 and 2 diabetics using insulin [392527]; the application was accepted for review by the FDA in January 2001 [396938], and was scheduled for review by the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee on July 26 2001 [408924]. In May 2001, Amylin submitted an MAA for pramlintide to the EMEA [411323] and in October 2001, Amylin received an approvable letter from the FDA for both Type I and insulin-using Type II diabetes; however, at this time, discussions with the FDA were ongoing regarding additional clinical work that was required before the NDA would be approved [425570].

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772918
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11790216
Care of patients with type 2 diabetes has been revolutionized throughout the past several years-first, by the realization of the importance of tight glycemic control in forestalling complications, and second, by the availability of several unique classes of oral antidiabetic agents. Deciphering which agent to use in certain clinical situations is a new dilemma facing the primary care physician.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11790217
Oral agents are the mainstay of pharmacologic treatment for type 2 diabetes, and physicians now have a number of agents to choose from. However, more choices translate into more complex decision making. Many patients with diabetes have associated comorbidities, and most diabetic patients will require more than 1 agent to achieve good glycemic control. This article illustrates several of the pharmacologic approaches to type 2 diabetes through 4 situations that use principles of evidence-based medicine. The scenarios also highlight some of the difficulties in choosing the optimal pharmacologic treatment regimen for individual patients. Physicians should also recognize that type 2 diabetes is a multisystem disorder that requires multidisciplinary care, including education and ongoing counseling for effective patient self-management of the disease. Finally, patient preferences are a vital component of informed decision making for pharmacologic treatment of diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11800292
This study aimed to confirm the efficacy of glimepiride given once daily in the treatment of Thai type 2 diabetic patients and to find out the optimum dosage for Thai patients. The patients were enrolled at the diabetic clinics of 5 hospitals (Rajavithi, Chulalongkorn, Pramongkutklao, Siriraj and Theptarin Hospitals). All patients started glimepiride 1 mg once daily and escalated to 2, 3, 4 and until 6 mg every 4 weeks if fasting plasma glucose (FPG) exceeded 140 mg/dL. Subjects were 60 females and 29 males with an average age of 52.2 +/- 10.0 years. Mean BMI was 25.5 +/- 3.8 kg/m2. Fifty seven patients (64.0%) were drug nave and thirty two patients (36.0%) had been previously treated with oral hypoglycemic agents. Seventy three per cent of the drug nave and 37 per cent of the previously treated patients could be controlled with 1-2 mg of glimepiride once daily. At the twelfth week of treatment, mean fasting plasma glucose decreased from 224.6 to 156.6 mg/dL (30% reduction) and mean HbA1c decreased from 10.0 to 7.5 per cent (25% reduction). At the end of the study 49.4 per cent of the patients had HbA1c < 7.0 per cent, 21.3 per cent had HbA1c 7.0-8.0 per cent and 29.3 per cent had HbA1c > 8.0 per cent. Adverse events that were probably or possibly related to the drug were reported in 5 patients (5.6%). Three of them were hypoglycemia and two patients had skin rash. All hypoglycemic episodes were mild. Glimepiride was indicated to be safe. There were no clinically significant changes in clinical laboratory values, physical examinations and vital signs. In conclusion, glimepiride was efficacious and safe in type 2 diabetes Thai patients and 1-2 mg of glimepiride appeared to be a sufficient dose for most newly diagnosed type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11815505
To evaluate the efficacy of the addition of insulin when maximal sulfonylurea therapy is inadequate in individuals with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11815507
Repaglinide, a novel antidiabetic agent that has a rapid onset and short duration of action, was developed for mealtime dosing. The purpose of this pharmacodynamic study was to validate a prandial regimen of repaglinide by comparing meal-related dosing with a regimen in which the same total daily dose was divided into only two doses at morning and evening meals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11824428
(1) The reference treatment for achieving weight loss by obese patients is a combination of dietary measures, exercise and behavioural interventions. There is currently no drug treatment with demonstrated efficacy on the morbidity or mortality associated with excess body weight. (2) Sibutramine, a serotonin- and noradrenaline-reuptake inhibitor structurally related to the amphetamines has been granted marketing authorisation in France for the treatment of obesity and excess body weight in patients with associated risk factors. (3) The clinical file on sibutramine contains no trial focusing on morbidity or mortality end points. (4) According to comparative clinical trials, weight loss during a 6-12 month course of sibutramine is, on average, between 3 and 9 kg greater than that on placebo. Patients regain weight after sibutramine cessation. (5) Sibutramine has little or no benefit on blood sugar or lipid parameters. (6) The main known adverse effect of sibutramine is increased blood pressure. Sibutramine also has amphetamine-like side effects. (7) In practice, sibutramine currently has no place in the management of obesity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11833837
Humalog Mix75/25 (Mix75/25) is a novel premixed insulin containing 75% neutral protamine lispro (an intermediate-acting insulin) and 25% insulin lispro.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11837468
Parameters of oxidative stress were quantitated in 50 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in uncontrolled state and after control using oral glibenclamide or gliclazide. The estimates were further compared between the two groups irrespective of drug used to evaluate the difference, if any.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11837705
To develop a predictive population pharmacokinetic/ pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) model for repaglinide (REP), an oral hypoglycemic agent, using artificial neural networks (ANNs).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11860348
A large number of oral antidiabetic agents are available today. This article provides a short review of the pharmacology and some clinical aspects of various oral antidiabetic drugs. It focuses mainly on the newest developing drugs (therapy of the near future) and on the most commonly used older groups for the common approach of every-day practice (sulphonylureas). The primary goal of this review is to compare the electrophysiological effects of glibenclamide in isolated normal and streptozotocin induced diabetic rats and alloxan induced rabbits ventricular preparations, while on the other hand to differentiate the hypoglycaemic sulphonylureas (0.1-1000 mmol/kg) according to their cardiovascular activity in healthy and diabetic animals. In vitro (1-100 micromol/l) as well as chronically treated (5 mg/kg for 10 weeks) glibenclamide prolonged the action potential duration in normal but failed to affect it in diabetic ventricular preparations. Our results suggest that the sensitivity to glibenclamide of K(ATP) channels in diabetic ventricular fibers is drastically decreased. The effects of different sulphonylureas (tolbutamide, glibenclamide, gliclazide, glimepiride) on ventricular ectopic beats as well as the duration of ventricular fibrillation induced by 10 min ischemia/50 min reperfusion in healthy and diabetic rats were compared. Tolbutamide and gliclazide dose-dependently enhanced both parameters both in healthy and diabetic groups. Glibenclamide in healthy rats increased, while in diabetic rats it decreased the arrhythmogenicity. Glimepiride depressed the arrhythmogenicity in both healthy and diabetic animals. Glimepiride proved to dose-dependently enhance the myocardial tissue flow in dog in contrast to glibenclamide. These results confirm that glimepiride has less cardiovascular actions than other sulphonylureas. From the newest oral antidiabetics this review tries to emphasize the most important basic pharmacological properties, mechanism of action, therapeutic use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11869171
Glibenclamide inhibits the opening of vascular ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels, which represents a protective mechanism during ischaemia. This effect may imply harmful cardiovascular effects of glibenclamide when used under conditions of ischaemia in patients with Type II diabetes. Acarbose is not associated with effects on the cardiovascular system, because the drug is not absorbed from the bowel. Therefore we hypothesized that treatment of Type II diabetes patients with glibenclamide will impair the vasodilator function of K(ATP) opening, unlike treatment with acarbose. A double-blind randomized cross-over study in 12 patients with Type II diabetes was performed to compare the effects of glibenclamide with those of acarbose on the vasodilator responses to K(ATP) channel opening in the forearm vascular bed. The study consisted of two periods: 8 weeks of treatment with orally administered glibenclamide (10 mg x day(-1)) followed by 8 weeks of treatment with acarbose (300 mg x day(-1)), or vice versa. At the end of each treatment period, forearm blood flow (venous occlusion plethysmography) in response to intra-arterially administered diazoxide, acetylcholine and dipyridamole and to forearm ischaemia was measured. The diazoxide-mediated increase in the forearm blood flow ratio (infused/control arm) was significantly less pronounced after glibenclamide than after acarbose (290 +/- 58% and 561 +/- 101% respectively; P<0.0005). Forearm blood flow responses to acetylcholine, dipyridamole and forearm ischaemia were similar during glibenclamide and acarbose treatment. Thus, in patients with Type II diabetes mellitus, treatment with glibenclamide is associated with an attenuated response to K(ATP) opening as compared with treatment with acarbose. This implies that glibenclamide may affect defensive mechanisms under conditions of K(ATP) channel activation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11872684
In patients with diabetes and coronary artery disease, the potential negative role of sulfonylurea drugs is under intensive investigation. We assessed the effects of treatment with glibenclamide or insulin on the extension of left ventricular myocardial dysfunction induced by acute ischemia. Nineteen consecutive patients with type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease entered the study. Each patient was randomly assigned to either insulin or glibenclamide therapy. Treatment was crossed over after 12 weeks and maintained for another 12 weeks. At the end of each treatment, left ventricular myocardial function at rest and during dipyridamole infusion was studied by two-dimensional echocardiography under the same conditions of metabolic control. Glibenclamide or insulin treatment did not influence the rest values of left ventricular dimensions, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), or wall motion score index (WMSI). Dipyridamole infusion, in patients receiving glibenclamide treatment, decreased LVEF (43 +/- 7 vs. 37 +/- 12%, P < 0.005) and increased WMSI (1.4 +/- 0.28 vs. 1.98 +/- 0.24, P < 0.001) compared with baseline values; during insulin treatment, LVEF (46 +/- 8 vs. 45 +/- 11%, NS) and WMSI (1.4 +/- 0.29 vs. 1.6 +/- 0.4, NS) did not change significantly. Peak stress LVEF was higher (45 +/- 11 vs. 37 +/- 12%, P < 0.001) and WMSI lower (1.6 +/- 0.4 vs. 1.98 +/- 0.24, P < 0.001) in patients receiving insulin. The results indicate that in patients with type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease, ischemic myocardial dysfunction induced by dipyridamole infusion is less severe during treatment with insulin than with glibenclamide. Restitution of a preconditioning mechanism in insulin-treated patients may be the potential beneficial mechanism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11874430
Glibenclamide attenuates the protective responses to opening of vascular ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels during ischaemia. Therefore, glibenclamide treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus may have hazardous cardiovascular effects when used under conditions of ischaemia. Glimepiride and metformin seem to lack such characteristics. Based on these data, we hypothesized that, in contrast to glibenclamide, chronic treatment of Type 2 diabetic patients with glimepiride or metformin will not impair the vasodilator function of K(ATP) opening in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11875249
Amyloid deposits within the islet of the pancreas have been known for a century. In 1987, the islet amyloid precursor polypeptide (IAPP) amylin (a 37 amino acid) was discovered. Recently there has been an explosion of amylin's importance in the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). This review is intended to share what is understood about amylin derived amyloid and the role it plays in T2DM. Whether islet amyloid is an epiphenomenona, a tombstone, or a trigger it leaves an indelible footprint in greater that 70% of the patients with T2DM. There is current data supporting the damaging role of intermediate sized toxic amyloid particles to the beta cell resulting in a beta cell defect which contributes to a relative deficiency or loss of insulin secretion. Within the islet there is an intense redox stress which may be associated with the unfolding of amylin's native secondary structure compounding its amyloidogenic properties. In addition to the beta cell defect there may be an absorptive defect as a result of amyloid deposition in the basement membranes which form an envelope around the inta-islet capillary endothelium. We have an opportunity to change our current treatment modalities with newer medications and we should attempt to diagnose T2DM earlier and use these newer treatment strategies in combination to decrease glucotoxicity without elevating endogenous insulin and amylin. In the 21st century our goal should be to prevent remodeling, save the pancreatic islet, conquer islet amyloid, and amyloid diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11884761
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11894443
Diabetes is a major and growing health problem in the US. An incredible array of different oral medications is now on the market. Clinicians should understand all these new medications and in which clinical picture they will work best.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11896745
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic metabolic disease that has a significant impact on the health, quality of life, and life expectancy of patients, as well as on the health care system. Exercise, diet, and weight control continue to be essential and effective means of improving glucose homeostasis. However, lifestyle management measures may be insufficient or patient compliance difficult, rendering conventional drug therapies (i.e., oral glucose-lowering agents and insulin injection) necessary in many patients. In addition to adverse effects, drug treatments are not always satisfactory in maintaining euglycemia and avoiding late stage diabetic complications. As an alternative approach, medicinal herbs with antihyperglycemic activities are increasingly sought by diabetic patients and health care professionals. Commonly used herbs and other alternative therapies, less likely to have the side effects of conventional approaches for type 2 diabetes, are reviewed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11903411
To study the effects and serum levels of glibenclamide (Gb) and its active metabolites in patients on chronic Gb medication on different daily doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11903412
To examine the effects of improved glycaemic control over 20 weeks on the type and distribution of weight change in patients with type 2 diabetes who at baseline have poor glycaemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11903417
NANSY is a randomised, placebo-controlled Swedish-Norwegian study which aims to include 2 x 1112 male and female subjects with impaired fasting glucose (IFG), to assess whether conversion to type 2 diabetes can be delayed by addition of sulphonylurea to dietary regulation and increased exercise. This pilot study was conducted to find the optimum dose of glimepiride in NANSY.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11919121
OBJECTIVE; To examine the effects of diet and diet with voglibose or glyburide on abdominal adiposity and metabolic abnormalities in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11921502
The persistence and compliance of type 2 diabetic patients to different regimens of anti-hyperglycemic therapy were assessed retrospectively. The pharmacy claims from a pharmacy benefit management organization were analysed from the third quarter of 1996 to the fourth quarter of 1999. Of the 23,400 patients enrolled and initiating anti-diabetic therapy, 85% started treatment with monotherapy, 9.5% with insulin alone, 4.1% with polytherapy and 1.3% with insulin plus another therapy. Monotherapy patients were characterized as receiving metformin, sulfonylurea or another agent. For the 1-year follow-up period, 70.5% of the metformin patients, 75.3% of the sulfonylurea patients and 86.8% of the polytherapy patients underwent no regimen modification (except discontinuation). For the patients who had no modification of their medication regimen, persistence with sulfonylurea or metformin monotherapy was 65% greater than with polytherapy over a 1-year period. Compliance with sulfonylurea or metformin monotherapy was 45% greater than with polytherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11939753
To introduce an innovative skin-marking technique performed before ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (US-FNAB) of the thyroid.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11951812
To determine the pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability of a novel, controlled-release oral formulation of alpha-lipoic acid (LA) and to investigate whether sustaining the concentration of LA in plasma would have a beneficial effect on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11952881
Intensive insulin treatment in type 2 diabetes can improve beta-cell function. It is not known which duration of treatment achieves maximal improvement. We addressed this question in type 2 diabetic patients who displayed features of 'secondary failure'.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11978249
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12040862
Increasingly, type 2 diabetes takes a toll on public health and healthcare costs in the United States. Although the remedy for this growing problem is very complex, two critical components of its control are prevention and effective therapy. Progress in diabetes prevention is likely to take decades. But fortunately, growth in our understanding of what occurs in this chronic disease has led to advances in the pharmacologic options aimed at decreasing hyperglycemia, the main clinically measurable metabolic consequence of diabetes. In this article, Drs Ahmann and Riddle provide an overview of the oral agents now available for the treatment of diabetes and discuss the clinical factors that help determine when to use which medication and what outcome to expect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12041635
Thiazolidinediones are a new class of drugs for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, and act by improving insulin sensitivity in adipose tissue, liver and skeletal muscle. Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone are registered for use in monotherapy, and in combination with sulfonylureas and metformin. Pioglitazone is also licensed for use in combination with insulin. There is level II evidence that in patients with inadequate glycaemic control both drugs reduce the level of HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) when used as monotherapy and in combination with sulfonylurea or metformin or insulin; and both drugs increase levels of HDL and LDL and lower free fatty acid levels, but only pioglitazone significantly lowers triglyceride levels. Both drugs lower fasting insulin and C-peptide levels. In monotherapy, they may be slightly less potent at reducing the level of HbA1c than sulfonylureas or metformin. The maximal effect of these agents may not be seen for 6-14 weeks after commencement. Both drugs are well tolerated but liver function must be checked at baseline every second month for the first year, and periodically thereafter. The drugs are currently contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe liver dysfunction and alanine aminotransferase levels more than 2.5 times normal, New York Heart Association III-IV cardiac status, pregnancy, lactation and in children. The main side effects include weight gain, oedema, and mild dilutional anaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12041735
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is being diagnosed at an alarming rate around the world. More than 90% of the estimated 200 million affected persons with diabetes worldwide have type 2 DM, an often clinically silent disorder. In the United States, nearly half of the estimated 16 million persons with diabetes remain undiagnosed. Type 2 diabetes is preceded by a long period of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), a potentially reversible metabolic state associated with increased risk for macrovascular complications. At the time of diagnosis more than one-third of patients have already developed long-term complications of diabetes. Genetic and acquired factors contribute to the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. The pathophysiological hallmarks consist of progressive insulin resistance, pancreatic beta-cell dysfunction, and excessive hepatic glucose production. The ideal treatment for type 2 diabetes should correct insulin resistance, beta-cell dysfunction, and normalize hepatic glucose output, as well as prevent, delay, or reverse diabetic complications. Emerging targets for therapy of type 2 diabetes include inhibition of gluconeogenesis, lipolysis, and fatty acid oxidation, as well as stimulation of beta3-adrenergic receptors. Drug intervention for obesity is a legitimate adjunct to diabetes management. Additional drug targets include interventions to prevent or delay the progression of specific complications. Finally, primary prevention of type 2 diabetes is an important emerging strategy. The specific pharmacological agents acting at the various targets are discussed in this review. A targeted approach to the multiple underlying pathophysiologic processes offers the best chance of controlling diabetes and complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12043953
This study was designed to compare the pharmacokinetic and short-term pharmacodynamic profile of extended-release glipizide GITS (Glucotrol XL) given in a dosage of 20 mg once daily with that of immediate-release glipizide (Glucotrol) 10mg twice daily in patients with type II diabetes mellitus. In an open-label, randomized, two-way crossover study, each glipizide formulation was administered for 5 days. Serial blood samples were drawn at baseline and on the 5th day of each treatment phase for measurement of glipizide, glucose, insulin, and C-peptide concentrations. At steady state, the mean Cmax after immediate-release glipizide was significantly greater than after glipizide GITS, and the tmax was considerably shorter. Although the mean Cmin with glipizide GITS was about 80% higher than with immediate-release glipizide, the mean AUC0-24 was significantly lower. Despite the lower plasma concentrations with glipizide GITS in this short-term study, the two formulations had similar effects on serum concentrations of glucose, insulin, and C-peptide. The absence of a pronounced peak plasma concentration with the GITS formulation might confer advantages in terms of maintaining clinical effectiveness and reducing the potential to cause adverse effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12047396
This study evaluated the addition of nateglinide, a d-phenylalanine derivative that restores early phase insulin release, to metformin in type 2 diabetes patients stabilized on high-dose metformin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12047399
To evaluate whether simultaneous initial treatment of both insulin resistance and impaired beta-cell insulin secretion with glyburide/metformin tablets is superior to monotherapy with each component agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12071108
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12074206
The glycaemic and lipid effects of treatment with pioglitazone in combination with a stable insulin regimen were evaluated in patients with type 2 diabetes. Patients (n=566) receiving stable insulin regimens for > or = 30 days yet who had HbA1c > or = 8.0% and C-peptide > 0.7 microg/l were randomised to receive once-daily 15 mg pioglitazone, 30 mg pioglitazone, or placebo in a 16-week multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Per study protocol, the insulin dose was to remain unchanged, but could be decreased in response to hypoglycaemia. At the end of double-blind treatment, patients receiving pioglitazone (15 mg or 30 mg) showed statistically significant mean decreases relative to baseline HbA1c (-1.0 and -1.3, respectively; p<0.0001) and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) (-34.5 mg/dl [-1.92 mmol/l] and -48.0 mg/dl [-2.67 mmol/l], respectively; p<0.0001); these differences compared with placebo were also significant (p<0.0001). Pioglitazone (15 or 30 mg) yielded significant increases in HDL-C levels (mean increases ranging from +7.1% to + 9.3%) compared with baseline or placebo (p<0.01). The 30 mg dose also significantly reduced mean triglyceride levels (-23.7%) compared with placebo (p=0.0218). No consistent changes in TC or LDL-C levels were observed. The incidence of adverse events was similar in all treatment groups, although the incidences of weight increase, hypoglycaemia and oedema were higher among patients receiving insulin plus pioglitazone. There was no evidence of hepatotoxicity or drug-induced elevations of serum ALT > or = 3 x ULN. Pioglitazone, when added to stable insulin regimens, significantly improved HbA1c and FPG in type 2 diabetes. Pioglitazone treatment also provided significant benefit with respect to plasma HDL-C and triglyceride levels. Whether these lipid changes have an impact on overall diabetic complications remains to be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12076188
Gliclazide modified release (MR) is a new formulation of the drug gliclazide and is given once daily. The hydrophilic matrix of hypromellose-based polymer in the new formulation effects a progressive release of the drug which parallels the 24-hour glycaemic profile in untreated patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The formulation shows high bioavailability and its absorption profile is unaffected by coadministration with food. Mean plasma glucose levels are significantly reduced over a 24-hour period in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with gliclazide MR once daily, in both fasting and postprandial states. No cardiovascular ATP-sensitive potassium channel interaction has been observed at therapeutic concentrations of gliclazide MR. Gliclazide MR has also demonstrated antioxidant properties that are independent of glycaemic control. In a randomised, double-blind, multicentre study, gliclazide MR 30 to 120 mg once daily showed similar efficacy to gliclazide immediate release (IR) 80 to 320 mg/day (in divided doses for doses >80 mg) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus over a 10-month period, reducing glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) to a similar extent. The drug appeared most efficacious in patients who had previously been treated by diet alone, where significant reductions in HbA(1c) from baseline of 0.9% and 0.95% were seen at 10 and 24 months. Similarly, a sustained effect of gliclazide MR was observed in a subgroup of elderly patients defined a priori; HbA(1c) was decreased to a similar degree to that observed in the general study population. Gliclazide MR showed similar tolerability to gliclazide IR after 10 months' treatment in the randomised trial. The most commonly observed adverse events were arthralgia, arthritis, back pain and bronchitis (each <5%). Bodyweight remained stable. In this study no episodes of nocturnal hypoglycaemia or hypoglycaemia requiring third party assistance were observed during treatment with gliclazide MR. Episodes of symptomatic hypoglycaemia were infrequent, occurring in approximately 5% of patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12083976
Repaglinide is a novel, fast-acting prandial oral hypoglycaemic agent developed for the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes whose disease cannot be controlled by diet and exercise alone. Although repaglinide binds to the sulphonylurea binding sites on pancreatic beta-cells and has a similar mechanism of action, repaglinide exhibits distinct pharmacological properties compared with these agents. Following administration, repaglinide is absorbed rapidly and has a fast onset of dose-dependent blood-glucose lowering effect. The drug is eliminated rapidly via the biliary route, without accumulation in the plasma after multiple doses. Repaglinide is well tolerated in patients with type 2 diabetes, including elderly patients and patients with hepatic or renal impairment. The pharmacokinetic profile of repaglinide and the improvements in post-prandial hyperglycaemia and overall glycaemic control make repaglinide suitable for administration preprandially, with the opportunity for flexible meal arrangements, including skipped meals, without the risk of hypoglycaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12086556
To review the use of orlistat in type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12093468
Desensitization of insulin secretion describes a reversible state of decreased secretory responsiveness of the pancreatic beta-cell, induced by a prolonged exposure to a multitude of stimuli. These include the main physiological stimulator, glucose, but also other nutrients like free fatty acids and practically all pharmacological stimulators acting by depolarization and Ca2+ influx into the beta-cell. Desensitization of insulin secretion appears to be an important step in the manifestation of type 2 diabetes and in the secondary failure of oral antidiabetic treatment. In this commentary, the basic concepts and the controversial issues in the field will be outlined. With regard to glucose-induced desensitization, two fundamentally opposing concepts have emerged. The first is that desensitization is the consequence of functional changes in the beta-cell that impair glucose-recognition. The second is that long-term increased secretory activity leads to a depletion of releasable insulin, often in spite of increased insulin synthesis. The latter concept is more appropriately termed beta-cell exhaustion. The same dichotomy applies to the desensitization evoked by pharmacological stimuli: again the relative contributions of a decreased insulin content versus alterations in signal transduction are in dispute. The action of tolbutamide on beta-cells may be an example of desensitization caused by a lack of releasable insulin since the signaling mechanisms are nearly unchanged, whereas the action of phentolamine, an imidazoline, induces a strong desensitization without reducing insulin content or secretory granules, apparently by abolishing Ca2+ influx. With pharmacological agents it seems that both, alterations in signal transduction and decreased availability of releasable insulin, can contribute to the desensitized state of the beta-cell, the relative contribution being variable depending upon the exact nature of the secretory stimulus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12099312
Today, the criteria for diagnosis and treatment have evolved into an evidence-based medicine approach. The need for evidence-based information is especially critical in the management of gestational diabetes, in general, and especially in the use of oral hypoglycemic agents. These agents have been categorically contraindicated for decades in the United States based on anecdotal and/or weak evidence for these recommendations. In this article, the similarities between gestational and type 2 diabetes are described and the rationale for the use of oral hypoglycemic agents for the treatment of both are discussed. The author will show how research from basic sciences (placental transfers) to clinical studies (perinatal outcome) can lead to significant evidence on which to base management recommendations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12099966
To determine the changes in oral hypoglycaemic therapy and the time to incidence of insulin therapy in people with Type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12116051
A randomized, two-way, crossover, bioequivalence study in 24 fasting, healthy, male volunteers was conducted to compare two brands of gliclazide 80 mg tablets, Glyzide (Julphar, UAE) as test and Diamicron (Servier Industries, France) as reference product. The study was performed at the International Pharmaceutical Research Centre (IPRC), in joint venture with Speciality Hospital, Amman, Jordan. The drug was administered with 240 ml of 20% glucose solution after a 10 h overnight fasting. After dosing, serial blood samples were collected for a period of 48 h. Plasma harvested from blood was analyzed for gliclazide by validated HPLC method. Various pharmacokinetic parameters including AUC(0-t), AUC(0- proportional, variant), C(max), T(max), T(1/2), and elimination rate constant were determined from plasma concentrations of both formulations. Statistical modules (ANOVA and 90% confidence intervals) were applied to AUC(0-t), AUC(0- proportional, variant), and C(max) for bioequivalence evaluation of the two brands which revealed no significant difference between them, and 90% CI fell within US FDA accepted bioequivalence range of 80-125%. Based on these statistical inferences, Glyzide was judged bioequivalent to Diamicron.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12143325
In the 1940s and '50s the first oral hypoglycaemic agents (the sulphonylureas and metformin) became available. These remained the only agents for the next 50 years. Over the last five years three new classes have been released. General practitioners now have a wider range of effective hypoglycaemic agents from which to choose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12147149
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of two dosage strengths of a single-tablet metformin-glibenclamide (glyburide) combination, compared with the respective monotherapies, in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) inadequately controlled by metformin monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12149047
Rosiglitazone, a thiazolidinedione with a different side chain from those of troglitazone and pioglitazone, reduces plasma glucose levels and glucose production and increases glucose clearance in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Insulin sensitivity, pancreatic beta-cell function and surrogate markers of cardiovascular risk factors are significantly improved by rosiglitazone. Double-blind trials of 8 to 26 weeks of rosiglitazone 4 or 8 mg/day monotherapy indicate significant decreases in fasting plasma glucose (-2 to -3 mmol/L with 8 mg/day) and glycosylated haemoglobin levels [HbA(1c); -0.6 to -0.7% (-0.8 to -1.1% in drug-naive patients) with 8 mg/day]. Significant decreases in hyperglycaemic markers occurred when rosiglitazone was combined with metformin (HbA(1c) -0.8 to -1.0%), a sulphonylurea (-1.4%) or insulin (-1.2%) for 26 weeks versus little change with active comparator monotherapy. Efficacy was maintained in trials of < or = 2 years, and was also apparent in various ethnic subgroups, elderly patients, and both obese and nonobese patients. Rosiglitazone is currently not indicated in combination with injected insulin. It should be administered in conjunction with diet and exercise regimens. Rosiglitazone is generally well tolerated. Despite rare individual reports of liver function abnormalities in rosiglitazone recipients, the incidence of these in clinical trials (< or = 2 years' duration) was similar to that in placebo and active comparator groups. Fluid retention associated with rosiglitazone may be the cause of the increased incidence of anaemia in clinical trials, and also means that patients should be monitored for signs of heart failure during therapy. Although bodyweight is increased overall with rosiglitazone therapy, increases are in subcutaneous, not visceral, fat; hepatic fat is decreased. The pharmacokinetic profile of rosiglitazone is not substantially altered by age or renal impairment, nor are there important drug interactions. Rosiglitazone is not indicated in patients with active liver disease or increased liver enzymes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12196422
To compare the effects of monotherapy using nateglinide and the thiazolidinedione troglitazone with initial combination of the two agents on glycated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)) in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled by diet alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12196435
The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of glimepiride on insulin sensitivity and secretion in subjects with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12207812
To evaluate the effects of gliclazide on oxidative status and vascular response to systemic administration of L-arginine, the natural precursor of nitric oxide (NO), in Type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12212016
This survey was conducted to assess patient perceptions of glycemic control, convenience, and flexibility of a prescribed prandial oral therapy for type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12212341
The purpose of this study was to assess the ability of older persons with type 2 diabetes to accurately break in half 2 different formulations of micronized glyburide tablets.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12351462
To compare the effect on glycemic control and weight gain of repaglinide versus metformin combined with bedtime NPH insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12351470
Therapies with metformin, sulfonylureas, or insulin improve glycemic control in the short term but do not prevent progressive islet beta-cell failure or long-term deterioration in glycemia. Our goal was to evaluate, in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (<3 years), the long-term efficacy of monotherapy with rosiglitazone on glycemic control and on the progression of pathophysiological abnormalities associated with type 2 diabetes as compared with metformin or glyburide monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12365465
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12365467
The aim of our study was to determine which factors are associated with switching from oral hypoglycaemic agents to insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in general practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12365468
Metformin added to insulin therapy in type 2 diabetic patients improves glycaemic control and decreases the required daily dose of insulin (DDI). Metformin should be discontinued if cardiac, hepatic or renal failure develops. We examined whether glycaemic control can be maintained after metformin cessation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12380632
Intensive glycemic control substantially reduces the microvascular and macrovascular complications of type 2 diabetes mellitus, although less than half of patients with diabetes achieve the target glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) value recommended by the American Diabetes Association. Because monotherapy with an oral agent does not address the multiple pathophysiologic defects of diabetes, use of combination therapy appears to be warranted. A previous 32-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial found that treatment with glyburide/metformin tablets was associated with greater reductions in HbA1c values compared with glyburide monotherapy, metformin monotherapy, and placebo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12380634
Because both type 2 diabetes and elevated plasma lipid levels are important independent risk factors for cardiovascular disease and coronary heart disease, the choice of an antihyperglycemic agent for patients with type 2 diabetes--in whom abnormal plasma lipid levels are often seen-should take into account effects on lipids as well as on markers of glycemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12385492
We are in the midst of a global pandemic of diabetes. Despite the increasing burden of the disease, measurements of quality repeatedly show poor adherence to or implementation of current guidelines for diabetes care. This article will provide a brief review of the most significant randomized controlled clinical trials relevant to the current guidelines and then discuss essential treatment goals and the evidence that supports them. Several practical clinical questions related to the implementation of modern diabetes guidelines will be raised and answered. Finally, reasons for the poor quality performance observed will be examined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12389879
The glycemic control of patients with diabetes in a physician-supervised, pharmacist-managed primary care clinic was compared with that of patients receiving standard care in the same health care system. We retrospectively analyzed the glycemic control of 87 men with type 1 or type 2 diabetes whose diabetes-related drug therapy was managed by clinical pharmacists compared with a control group of 85 similar patients whose care was not augmented by clinical pharmacists. Primary outcomes were differences in fasting blood glucose (FBG) and glycosylated hemoglobin (A1C) levels between groups. Secondary outcomes were relative risk (RR) for achieving an A1C of 7% or below, frequency of diabetes-related scheduled and unscheduled clinic visits, and frequency of hypoglycemic events. The study group had 864 clinic visits and the control group had 712 between October 1997 and June 2000. No statistical differences were noted in FBG or A1C between groups. The RR of achieving an A1C of 7% or below was significantly higher in the study cohort (RR 5.19, 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.62-10.26). The frequency of hypoglycemic events did not differ between groups. The mean +/- SD frequency of unscheduled diabetes-related clinic visits/patient/year was higher in the control group (1.33 +/- 3.74) than in the study group (0.11 +/- 0.46, p = 0.003). Pharmacist-managed diabetes care was effective in improving glycemic control and was not associated with an increased risk for hypoglycemic events or unscheduled diabetes-related clinic visits.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12390047
The treatment approach of diabetes mellitus during pregnancy requires a combination of diet, exercise, multiple home glucose determinations and intensive insulin regimens. During the last decade there was an increased interest in the use of oral antihyperglycemic agents (OAHAs) as an alternative to insulin in achieving good glycemic control. OAHAs are divided into four groups: derivatives of sulfonylurea, biguanides, glucosidase inhibitors and thiazolidinediones. This review describes the possible teratogenic effects of the use of OAHAs during pregnancy and the effects of these drugs during lactation. Animal and human studies assessing the teratogenic effects of OAHAs have yielded conflicting data because the risk of major malformations in infants of mothers with diabetes appears to be related to maternal glycemic control rather than the antidiabetic therapy. A major concern with the use of OAHAs during pregnancy is neonatal hypoglycemia, which may be severe and persist for days. Therefore, insulin is still the drug of choice because it has not been implicated as a teratogen in human pregnancies. In addition, because of the lack of data regarding the use of OAHAs in pregnancy, we cannot draw firm conclusions about all of the available drugs. However, OAHAs, especially glibenclamide (glyburide), may be beneficial in a situation where the proper use of insulin is problematic. Because there are very limited clinical data on the exposure of OAHAs to the infant via breast milk, and the potentially serious effect of neonatal hypoglycemia, the safest recommendation is not to breast feed while taking OAHAs. Well-conducted, prospective, controlled studies regarding the feasibility of OAHAs in pregnant women with diabetes and during lactation are needed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12393300
Prior to the introduction of troglitazone, it had been more than 30 years since the last significant improvement in antidiabetic therapy. In view of the pressing need for more effective oral agents for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus, troglitazone was granted priority review by the FDA and was launched in the USA in 1997. The first of the thiazolidinedione insulin sensitizing agents, troglitazone was quickly followed by rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. The glitazones proved to be effective not only in lowering blood glucose, but also to have beneficial effects on cardiovascular risk. Troglitazone was subsequently withdrawn because of concerns about hepatotoxicity, which appears to be less of a problem with rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. Recent insights into the molecular mechanism of action of the glitazones, which are ligands for the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors, open the prospect of designing more effective, selective and safer antidiabetic agents. This document will review the history of troglitazone from discovery through clinical development.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12401757
This open-label, active-controlled study investigated the cardiac safety and antihyperglycemic effect of rosiglitazone (RSG) in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12406033
To compare the efficacy, safety and tolerability of a fixed combination glyburide/metformin preparation with those of glyburide or metformin alone in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled by sulphonylurea, diet and exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12412817
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is the major inhibitor of endogenous thrombolysis, thereby promoting thrombosis. PAI-1 is also a primary contributor to the development and recurrence of acute myocardial infarction. The renin angiotensin system, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia, and estrogen all influence the fibrinolytic system and PAI-1 in particular. Available data strongly suggest that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and hormone replacement therapy with estrogen beneficially reduce PAI-1 production. Metformin, an agent commonly used for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), appears to favorably decrease PAI-1 production in NIDDM patients but not nondiabetic patients. Among the cholesterol-lowering statins, clinical literature evaluating pravastatin provides the most compelling data to support this agent's favorable effect on PAI-1. Other available statins either have not displayed an effect on PAI-1 or do not have clear data to conclusively define their effects on the fibrinolytic system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12423711
Glyburide (glibenclamide) is a specific blocker of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) sensitive potassium (K+) channel. It has been reported to result in prolongation of the QT interval. QT interval dispersion (QTd) is a potentially sensitive marker for increased risk of arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of glyburide on QTd and compare it with that of metformin, a hypoglycemic agent that does not block the adenosine triphosphate sensitive K+ channel. Thirty patients with type 2 diabetes were randomized to glyburide and metformin groups. A 12-lead electrocardiogram was obtained before and at 2 months after being on glyburide or metformin. Therapy with QT and QTd were measured and QT corrected for rate (QTc). There was no significant difference between the glyburide and metformin groups in age (62 +/- 9 vs 59 +/- 10 years), baseline RR interval (819 +/- 86 vs 753 +/- 100 ms), QT (387 +/- 28 vs 383 +/- 27 ms), and QTc (433 +/- 25 vs 444 +/- 15 ms). Glyburide was associated with a significant increase in QTc (433 +/- 24 to 467 +/- 24 ms, p <0.001), QTd (24 +/- 16 to 60 +/- 22 ms, p <0.001), and QTc dispersion (QTcd) (35 +/- 18 to 68 +/- 21 ms, p <0.001). In contrast, metformin was associated with a decrease in QTc (444 +/- 15 to 432 +/- 15 ms, p <0.01) and did not affect QTd (14 +/- 5 to 12 +/- 6 ms, p = NS) and QTcd (23 +/- 9 to 22 +/- 10 ms, p = NS). Glyburide, unlike metformin, causes an increase in QT dispersion. Increased dispersion may be a factor underlying an increased risk of arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12437315
The incidence of diabetes mellitus is steadily increasing in the United States. Currently the United States spends approximately $100 billion in healthcare costs annually for the management of diabetes. Most of the costs are attributed to hospitalizations and treatment of diabetes complications. Preventing these complications with tight glycemic control is the key to reducing morbidity, mortality, and healthcare costs secondary to diabetes mellitus. Recently, the American College of Endocrinology also stressed earlier screening for diabetes and endorsed lowering the goal percent of hemoglobin glycosylation to 6.5%. These strategies help identify patients with diabetes at an earlier stage and in turn prevent more complications. Better control of diabetes is now feasible with the recent approval of 8 new antidiabetic products. Pioglitazone and rosiglitazone are agents with a novel mechanism of action. Metformin XR, insulin aspart, and miglitol are agents that are similar to previously marketed products, but have different pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic properties. Metformin/glyburide is the first combination product for the treatment of diabetes. Nateglinide represents the first agent in a new class of antidiabetic agents and insulin glargine is a novel insulin preparation. All of the agents have unique characteristics that may render them useful in specific patient populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12437490
Gestational diabetes (GD) develops because pregnancy increases requirements for insulin secretion while increasing insulin resistance. Women with GD often have impaired pancreatic beta-cell compensation for insulin resistance. The nature of GD is currently contentious, with debate about its existence, diagnosis and ramifications for both mother and offspring from pregnancy into later life. Also contentious are the outcomes of intervention with diet, insulin, glyburide (Glynase trade mark, Pharmacia Upjohn) and metformin (Glucophage trade mark, Bristol-Myers Squibb). There is consensus that women with unequivocal GD have a significant risk of adverse perinatal outcomes and increased risk of later type 2 diabetes mellitus. Foetuses from pregnancies with GD have a higher risk of macrosomia (associated with higher rate of birth injuries), asphyxia, and neonatal hypoglycaemia and hyperinsulinaemia. Uncontrolled GD predisposes foetuses to accelerated, excessive fat accumulation, insulin resistance, pancreatic exhaustion secondary to prenatal hyperglycaemia and possible higher risk of child and adult obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus later in adult life. However, there is no consensus as to whether glucose intolerance of a severity below unequivocal GD is related to adverse maternal, fetal or perinatal outcomes, and whether this relationship is a continuous one. If dietary intervention is not sufficient in the treatment of GD, then, historically, insulin has been added. Recent studies suggest that glyburide may be efficaciously substituted for insulin. Preliminary studies suggest that metformin may have the unique potential to prevent the development of GD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12442064
To study the effect on body weight and glycaemic control of two insulin treatment regimens in patients with Type 2 diabetes and moderate failure to oral hypoglycaemic agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12452739
To compare the effects of two different formulations of glibenclamide (glyburide) combined with metformin on postprandial glucose excursions, and to assess their pharmacokinetics. The formulations were a combination glibenclamide/metformin tablet (Glucovance; controlled-particle-size glibenclamide and metformin) versus glibenclamide (Micronase) and metformin (Glucophage) coadministered separately.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12453948
Epidemiological studies have implicated increased plasminogen-activated inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) as a marker or predictor of accelerated coronary atherosclerotic disease in type 2 diabetes. We sought to determine whether metabolic control, independent of its oral mode of implementation, affects PAI-1 in patients with marked hyperglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12453951
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the metabolic effectiveness, safety, and tolerability of nateglinide in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and to identify a dose appropriate for use in a diabetes prevention study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12461471
The therapeutic guidelines of the seventies for type 2 diabetic patients was a monotherapy which choice was based on the BMI of the patient and a bitherapy in case of a blood glucose increase. The pathophysiologic knowledge on type 2 diabetes has moved and the disease is nowadays more complex with a loss of the beta cell mass and an insulin resistance state of the liver, muscle and adipocyte tissue associated with a defect in gastro-intestinal hormones in the postprandial state. The pathophysiologic knowledge and the existence of new therapeutic agents led us to discuss oral antidiabetic polychemotherapy at the first drug prescription. This intuitive proposition has no evidence-based arguments with prospective long-term studies that would demonstrate the benefit of such a proposition. Moreover, if nowadays we can imagine a tritherapy proposition, progress in chemistry research will conduct to a quadri- and penta-therapy with expected difficulties in therapeutic compliance of the patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12467917
A method has been developed for the high-throughput inhibition screening of the major human cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) using an in vitro substrate cocktail and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS). A cocktail consisting of the selective substrates phenacetin (CYP1A2), tolbutamide (CYP2C9), omeprazole (CYP2C19), bufuralol (CYP2D6), and midazolam (CYP3A4) was incubated with human liver microsomes. The metabolic reactions were terminated with methanol containing dextrorphan as an internal standard. Following centrifugation, the supernatant was analyzed by LC-MS-MS employing a fast gradient. The concentrations of the substrate metabolites-paracetamol, 4-hydroxytolbutamide, 5-hydroxyomeprazole, 1'-hydroxybufuralol, and 1'-hydroxymidazolam-in each sample were determined by LC-MS-MS in a single assay. The method was validated by incubating known CYP inhibitors (furafylline, CYP1A2; sulfaphenazole, CYP2C9; s-mephenytoin, CYP2C19; quinidine, CYP2D6; and troleandomycin, CYP3A4) with the individual substrates they were known to inhibit and with the substrate cocktail. IC50s (microM) determined using the substrate cocktail were in good agreement with those obtained with individual substrates (furafylline, 2.9 vs. 2.0; sulfaphenazole, 0.75 vs. 0.72; s-mephenytoin, 170 vs. 180; quinidine, 0.17 vs. 0.24; troleandomycin, 2.6 vs. 3.2) and with previously reported values in the literature.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12469695
(1) Treatment of type 2 (non insulin-dependent) diabetes is based on lifestyle measures and management of cardiovascular risk. (2) The reference first-line drug therapy for type 2 diabetes, when drug therapy is needed, is single-agent treatment with metformin (a biguanide) for overweight patients, or with glibenclamide (a glucose-lowering sulphonylurea) for other patients. (3) If monotherapy fails to control blood glucose levels adequately, most clinical guidelines then recommend a combination of metformin with a glucose-lowering sulphonylurea, although the few available comparative clinical data raise the possibility of excess mortality with this treatment. (4) Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone (glitazones that reduce insulin resistance) have been authorized in the European Union for combination with a glucose-lowering sulphonylurea (for patients in whom metformin is ineffective or poorly tolerated) or with metformin (for obese patients). (5) None of the available trials of rosiglitazone and pioglitazone include data on mortality or morbidity. (6) There are fewer data on pioglitazone than on rosiglitazone. (7) According to short-term comparative trials, rosiglitazone and pioglitazone are more effective than placebo on blood glucose levels. Combinations of rosiglitazone or pioglitazone with metformin or with glucose-lowering sulphonylureas have not been compared with the metformin + glucose-lowering sulphonylurea combination or with insulin. (8) Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone frequently cause weight gain. (9) Pioglitazone has a slightly favourable effect on lipid profiles, unlike rosiglitazone, which increases LDL-cholesterol levels. (10) The main side effect of rosiglitazone and pioglitazone is sodium and water retention, which can provoke oedema, anaemia (by haemodilution), and even heart failure. Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone are also hepatotoxic. (11) Combining rosiglitazone with insulin is contraindicated, owing to the increased risk of heart failure. The same applies to pioglitazone. (12) In practice, neither rosiglitazone nor pioglitazone has a place in the management of type 2 diabetes, except in the context of strictly controlled long-term comparative clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12472202
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is a common renal disease without an effective therapeutic intervention to delay renal failure. Within kindreds, renal dysfunction often develops at a similar age in affected individuals, although there are known modifying factors. Two kindreds with ADPKD have shown a striking pattern of delayed onset of renal insufficiency in those individuals also suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus. Eight nondiabetic patients with ADPKD had onset of dialysis or renal death at ages 38-52 years, (mean +/- SEM 46 +/- 1.9, n = 7) as compared with four diabetics who started dialysis or are still off dialysis at the age of 61 +/- 2.8 years (p < 0.01). Two of the four diabetics still have reasonable renal function at age 61 and 66. The diabetes was diagnosed at age 32 +/- 2 years and was treated with oral hypoglycemics for 19 +/- 2 years before institution of insulin. Cardiovascular disease dominated the clinical picture in the diabetics. In conclusion, onset of renal failure in ADPKD was delayed for over 15 years in individuals who also suffered from type 2 diabetes mellitus, in two ADPKD kindreds. Possible mechanisms are discussed, including glibenclamide inhibition of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. The striking delay associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus in ADPKD induced renal failure should be evaluated further.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12473527
Some reasons justify the introduction of the association of sulfonylurea and metformine when monotherapy is ineffective. Hereafter a period of monotherapy by sulfonylurea or metformine only bitherapy has been instituted. Socio-demography, number of consultations, type of monotherapy and of association, duration of treatment, body mass index, fasting blood glycemia and post-prandial glycemia, blood pressure and type of complication were studied. There were 2.5 times more women than men with lower mean age for women. The majority of patients were from Dakar (81.6%). More than half of patients were women at home (60.5%). Present obesity (plethoric diabetes) or past obesity (metaplethoric diabetes) concerned 90.3% of patients. Patients have done 9.14 4.39 consultations under bitherapy. The gliclazide-metformin association was observed 37 times and the glibenclamide-metformin association 67 times. The duration of monotherapy was 45.9 39.7 months and that of bitherapy 92.5 43.7 months. The variations of body mass index showed a diminution of 1.26 kg/m2 and for fasting blood glycemia and augmentation of 0.011 g/L and post-prandial a diminution of 0.05 g/L. The body mass index variations in diabetic patients showed a diminution of weight more in plethoric patients in bitherapy compared to monotherapy. This study is retrospective and cannot show the optimal efficacy of bitherapy. But the combination of enhancement of glucose captation and lowering of hepatic glucose production has been shown during this bitherapeutic association. Addition of metformine and treatment with sulfonylurea make a combination that significatively improves glycemic control but also cholesterol level and allows obtation of better weight in type 2 non insulin-dependent diabetes with insulinoresistance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12519086
Experimental data suggest that vascular ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels may be an important determinant of functional hyperaemia, but the contribution of K(ATP) channels to exercise-induced hyperaemia in humans is unknown. Forearm blood flow was assessed in 39 healthy subjects (23 males/16 females; age 22+/-4 years) using the technique of venous occlusion plethysmography. Resting forearm blood flow and functional hyperaemic blood flow (FHBF) were measured before and after brachial artery infusion of the K(ATP) channel inhibitors glibenclamide (at two different doses: 15 and 100 microg/min) and gliclazide (at 300 microg/min). FHBF was induced by 2 min of non-ischaemic wrist flexion-extension exercise at 45 cycles/min. Compared with vehicle (isotonic saline), glibenclamide at either 15 microg/min or 100 microg/min did not significantly alter resting forearm blood flow or peak FHBF. The blood volume repaid at 1 and 5 min after exercise was not diminished by glibenclamide. Serum glucose was unchanged after glibenclamide, but plasma insulin rose by 36% (from 7.2+/-0.8 to 9.8+/-1.3 m-units/l; P =0.02) and 150% (from 9.1+/-1.3 to 22.9+/-3.5 m-units/l; P =0.002) after the 15 and 100 microg/min infusions respectively. Gliclazide also did not affect resting forearm blood flow, peak FHBF, or the blood volume repaid at 1 and 5 min after exercise, compared with vehicle (isotonic glucose). Gliclazide induced a 12% fall in serum glucose (P =0.009) and a 38% increase in plasma insulin (P =0.001). Thus inhibition of vascular K(ATP) channels with glibenclamide or gliclazide does not appear to affect resting forearm blood flow or FHBF in healthy humans. These findings suggest that vascular K(ATP) channels may not play an important role in regulating basal vascular tone or skeletal muscle metabolic vasodilation in the forearm of healthy human subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12520624
The objective of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics of three different single doses (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 mg) of repaglinide in healthy Caucasian and Japanese subjects. In this single-center, open-label, randomized, three-period crossover study, 27 healthy male subjects (15 Caucasian and 12 Japanese) each received three different single doses of repaglinide (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 mg) at consecutive 24-hour intervals. Pharmacokinetic profiles, including area under the curve (AUC0-t), maximum serum concentration (Cmax), time to Cmax (tmax), and half-life (t1/2), were determined for each dose of repaglinide. The relative change in blood glucose level (RC1h) and area under the blood glucose curve (AUGC0-1) at 1 hour after dose were also measured. After oral dosing, both Cmax and AUC0-t increased linearly with dose within the 0.5- to 2.0-mg dose range, regardless of ethnic group. Both Cmax and AUC0-t were significantly higher in Japanese subjects than in Caucasian subjects. At each dose of repaglinide, Cmax and AUC were statistically significantly higher in Japanese than in Caucasian subjects (p = 0.0038 and 0.023, respectively). Discrepancies in body weight and body mass index (BMI) between Caucasian and Japanese subjects could not explain the between-group differences in Cmax or AUC0-t. Statistically significant differences in pharmacodynamic parameters (RC1h and AUGC0-1) were found between ethnic groups (p < 0.0001), the difference being more pronounced for RC1h than AUGC0-1. At a dose of 2.0 mg, the mean decrease in RC1h was 41% for Japanese subjects and 24% for Caucasian subjects. Hypoglycemic reactions were more common at the highest dose (2.0 mg), where they were observed more frequently in Japanese (7 cases) than in Caucasian subjects (4 cases). It was concluded that higher serum levels of repaglinide and greater reductions in blood glucose levels are found in Japanese than in Caucasian subjects following a single oral dose of repaglinide within the 0.5- to 2.0-mg dose range. Repaglinide is well tolerated in both ethnic groups. The results indicate that glycemic control targets may be achieved at lower doses within the recommended range (0.5-4.0 mg/meal) when repaglinide is used to treat Japanese patients in comparison to Caucasian patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12520632
The metabolic activity of CYP2C9 in 16 subjects expressing four different genotypes (CYP2C9*1/*1, *1/*2, *1/*3, and *2/*2) was evaluated. Single oral doses of tolbutamide, flurbiprofen, and losartan were administered in a randomized, crossover design. Plasma and urine were collected over 24 hours. The urinary metabolic ratio and amount of metabolite(s) excreted were correlated with formation clearance. The formation clearance of tolbutamide to its CYP2C9-mediated metabolites demonstrated a stronger association with genotype compared to flurbiprofen and losartan, respectively (r2 = 0.64 vs. 0.53 vs. 0.42). A statistically significant correlation was observed between formation clearance of tolbutamide and the 0- to 12-hour urinary amount of 4'-hydroxytolbutamide and carboxytolbutamide (r = 0.84). Compared to tolbutamide, the correlations observed between the respective measures of flurbiprofen and losartan metabolism were not as strong. Tolbutamide is a better CYP2C9 probe than flurbiprofen and losartan, and the 0- to 12-hour amount of 4'-hydroxytolbutamide and carboxytolbutamide is the best urinary measure of its metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12523675
Angiotensin-receptor blockers have been part of the antihypertensive treatment armamentarium since the mid-1990s. During this period, the number of agents has increased greatly, as has the number of indications for which these drugs are being tested in randomized controlled clinical trials. Beginning as efficacious and very well tolerated antihypertensives, angiotensin-receptor blockers have been shown to have benefits in patients with diabetes and heart failure that are not only attributable to the reduced blood pressure, as supported by recently concluded trials. The expanding treatment areas with these agents widen the interest in their applicability across the entire cardiovascular continuum. A number of large-scale studies set to report within the next few years will further determine the effects of angiotensin-receptor blockers in a range of cardiovascular indications beyond hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12524280
K(ATP) channels are comprised of a pore-forming protein, Kir6.x, and the sulfonylurea receptor, SURx. Interaction of adenine nucleotides with Kir6.2 positively charged amino acids such as K185 and R201 on the C-terminus causes channel closure. Substitution of these amino acids with other positively charged residues had small effects on inhibition by adenine nucleotide, while substitution with neutral or negative residues had major effects, suggesting electrostatic interactions between Kir6.2 positive charges and adenine nucleotide negative phosphate groups. Furthermore, R201 mutation decreased channel sensitivity to ATP, ADP, and AMP to a similar extent, but K185 mutation decreased primarily ATP and ADP sensitivity, leaving the AMP sensitivity relatively unaffected. Thus, channel inhibition by ATP may involve interaction of the alpha-phosphate with R201 and interaction of the beta-phosphate with K185. In addition, decreased open probability due to rundown or sulfonylureas caused an increase in ATP sensitivity in the K185 mutant, but not in the R201 mutant. Thus, the beta-phosphate may bind in a state-independent fashion to K185 to destabilize channel openings, while R201 interacts with the alpha-phosphate to stabilize a channel closed configuration. Substitution of R192 on the C-terminus and R50 on the N-terminus with different charged residues also affected ATP sensitivity. Based on these results a structural scheme is proposed, which includes features of other recently published models.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12542723
The aim of our double-blind, placebo-controlled study was to compare the effect of acarbose and glibenclamide on the insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12547850
We investigated the effect of glimepiride, a third-generation sulfonylurea hypoglycemic agent, on insulin resistance in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes, in connection with plasma adiponectin and 8-epi-prostagrandin F2alpha (8-epi-PGF2alpha), an oxidative stress marker.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12549986
Diabetes mellitus in adults is associated with an increased risk of premature vascular disease and a higher mortality rate. The presence of other risk factors, often seen in diabetic patients, such as systemic hypertension, augments the rate of vascular diseases. Evidence is growing that tight control of hyperglycemia using insulin and/or oral hypoglycemic agents will modify this risk. More aggressive control of concomitant hypertension and/or hyperlipidemia is also required. Diabetic patients who have myocardial infarctions do worse than nondiabetic patients. Various strategies to improve outcomes include the use of tight blood glucose control, and various coronary interventions are currently under clinical study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12556541
Cardiovascular morbidity is a major burden in patients with type 2 diabetes. In the Steno-2 Study, we compared the effect of a targeted, intensified, multifactorial intervention with that of conventional treatment on modifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12558728
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12571611
This study examines the effect of rosiglitazone on urinary albumin excretion (UAE) in patients with type II diabetes. Urinary albumin: creatinine ratio (ACR) was measured in a 52-week, open-label, cardiac safety study comparing rosiglitazone and glyburide. Patients were randomised to treatment with rosiglitazone 4 mg b.i.d. or glyburide. ACR was measured at baseline and after 28 and 52 weeks of treatment. Statistically significant reductions from baseline in ACR were observed in both treatment groups at week 28. By week 52, only the rosiglitazone group showed a significant reduction from baseline. Similar results were observed for the overall study population and for the subset of patients with baseline microalbuminuria. For patients with microalbuminuria at baseline, reductions in ACR did not correlate strongly with reductions in glycosylated haemoglobin, or fasting plasma glucose, but showed strong correlation with changes in mean 24-h systolic and diastolic blood pressure for rosiglitazone-treated patients (deltaACR vs deltamean 24-h systolic blood pressure, r=0.875; deltaACR vs deltamean 24-h diastolic blood pressure, r=0.755; P < 0.05 for both). No such correlation was observed for glyburide-treated patients. In conclusion, rosiglitazone treatment was associated with a decrease in urinary albumin excretion. These findings suggest a potential beneficial effect of rosiglitazone in the treatment or prevention of renal and vascular complications of type II diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12580986
To study the relationship between the pharmacokinetics (PK) of gliclazide and its long-term pharmacodynamic (PD) effect in a large population of Type 2 diabetic patients and to identify factors predicting intersubject variability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12589230
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterized by both insulin deficiency and insulin resistance. Effective treatment often requires therapy directed at both abnormalities. Patients on monotherapy might benefit from a combination agent such as glyburide/metformin, which increases insulin secretion and reduces insulin resistance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12602406
(1) Metformin and glibenclamide are the only oral antidiabetics with a proven impact on the complications of type 2 diabetes. (2) Treatment with one of these drugs often fails to achieve the recommended target in HbA1c level (below 7%). (3) Only one randomised trial has assessed the preventive efficacy of a combination of oral antidiabetics when hyperglycaemia persists despite treatment with a glucose-lowering sulphonylurea. The trial showed that combining metformin and a glucose-lowering sulphonylurea is associated with a higher mortality than therapy with a sulphonylurea alone. (4) Despite this result, most clinical guidelines recommend the metformin + glucose-lowering sulphonylurea combination when oral antidiabetic monotherapy fails. (5) In the absence of convincing data supporting any particular strategy, all options should be discussed with patients including continuing with oral antidiabetic monotherapy, or starting insulin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12602474
A diabetic patient with chronic renal failure who developed recurrent and prolonged episodes of hypoglycemia associated with use of sulfonylurea agent is presented here. This patient was hospitalized with neuroglycopenic symptoms of hypoglycemia that persisted in spite of large doses of parenteral glucose replacement. On administration of somatostatin analogue octreotide, hypoglycemia resolved and, blood glucose levels were maintained even after cessation of parenteral glucose. The patient received 2 subcutaneous doses of octreotide 12 hours apart, and made a complete recovery. Our experience suggests that use of octerotide to treat refractory or prolonged sulfonylurea-included hypoglycemia in renal failure patients is safe and effective; large prospective studies would be needed to validate these findings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12610054
To evaluate the influence of renal impairment on the safety and efficacy of repaglinide in type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12616669
Treatment of hyperglycemia in patients with diabetes mellitus and renal insufficiency is complicated by altered pharmacokinetics of hypoglycemic agents. This study evaluated the pharmacokinetic profile and safety of nateglinide, an amino acid derivative that improves early phase insulin secretion and reduces mealtime glucose excursions. This open-label, single-dose, two-center study included patients (mean age = 57 +/- 10 years) with type 1 or 2 diabetes with impaired renal function (IRF) (n = 10) or with renal failure undergoing hemodialysis (n = 10). Both groups were compared with age-, sex-, height-, and weight-matched healthy controls (n = 20). All participants received a single 120-mg dose of nateglinide immediately before breakfast. Pharmacokinetic and safety evaluations were undertaken up to 48 hours postdose. All 40 subjects completed the study. Plasma nateglinide concentrations increased rapidly in patients undergoing dialysis and matched healthy subjects (tmax = 0.95 vs. 0.78 h, respectively) and was comparable with patients with IRF and matched healthy subjects (tmax = 0.80 vs. 0.65 h, respectively). There were no statistically significant differences for Cmax or AUC0-t between the groups. Nateglinide was eliminated rapidly in all groups (t1/2 = 1.9-2.8 h). There was no correlation between the level of renal function and systemic exposure. There was a low extent of renal excretion of nateglinide in healthy subjects (11%) and diabetic patients with IRF (3%). Nateglinide was well tolerated. These data suggest that nateglinide is suitable for use in diabetic patients with IRF or with renal failure undergoing dialysis. Given the comparable absorption and elimination profiles of nateglinide in renally impaired and healthy subjects, no dose adjustment appears necessary in the renally impaired.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12637120
Mexican Americans, the fastest growing ethnic group in the United States, have a 2- to 3-fold higher prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus relative to the non-Hispanic white population. It is estimated that 10% of Mexican Americans >or=20 years of age have diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12637977
The relative contributions of insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction to the pathophysiology of Type 2 diabetes have been debated extensively. The concept that a feedback loop governs the interaction of the insulin-sensitive tissues and the beta cell as well as the elucidation of the hyperbolic relationship between insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion explains why insulin-resistant subjects exhibit markedly increased insulin responses while those who are insulin-sensitive have low responses. Consideration of this hyperbolic relationship has helped identify the critical role of beta-cell dysfunction in the development of Type 2 diabetes and the demonstration of reduced beta-cell function in high risk subjects. Furthermore, assessments in a number of ethnic groups emphasise that beta-cell function is a major determinant of oral glucose tolerance in subjects with normal and reduced glucose tolerance and that in all populations the progression from normal to impaired glucose tolerance and subsequently to Type 2 diabetes is associated with declining insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function. The genetic and molecular basis for these reductions in insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function are not fully understood but it does seem that body-fat distribution and especially intra-abdominal fat are major determinants of insulin resistance while reductions in beta-cell mass contribute to beta-cell dysfunction. Based on our greater understanding of the relative roles of insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction in Type 2 diabetes, we can anticipate advances in the identification of genes contributing to the development of the disease as well as approaches to the treatment and prevention of Type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12648023
Due to legal, ethical and monetary problems, drug studies in pregnancy are rare. Numerous pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic changes occur in pregnancy that can affect the efficacy and safety of drugs, and these are difficult to predict without appropriate studies. Drugs potentially useful and safe in pregnancy have to either not cross the placenta and/or be harmless to the fetus at clinically relevant concentrations. The first characteristic can be predicted using in vitro models such as the placenta perfusion model. In the case of glibenclamide (glyburide), in vitro experiments showed minimal maternal-fetal transfer, leading to completion of a successful clinical trial of this drug in gestational diabetes. Insulin, the main drug used in diabetes during pregnancy, has also been shown not to cross the placenta in vitro, as has insulin lispro. Animal insulin may cross the placenta when complexed with anti-insulin antibodies. Other sulphonylurea drugs (tolbutamide and chlorpropamide) have been shown to cross the placenta both in vitro and in vivo and to produce toxicity in the fetus. This review summarises the pharmacokinetic data available for hypoglycaemic drugs during pregnancy, as well as the potential role for the in vitro placenta perfusion model in the preclinical evaluation of drugs with potential usefulness in pregnancy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12663588
To determine whether oral magnesium supplementation (as magnesium chloride [MgCl(2)] solution) improves both insulin sensitivity and metabolic control in type 2 diabetic subjects with decreased serum magnesium levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12674170
Type 2 diabetic patients initially respond satisfactorily to diet, exercise and oral hypoglycaemic agents (OHA), but a fraction of them acquires resistance to drugs, right from the beginning (primary OHA failure) or in due course of time (secondary OHA failure) and becomes insulin requiring ultimately. Poor diet compliance and deterioration of beta-cell function are major causes of OHA failure and annual incidence is 3 to 30%. Keeping in mind the benefit of organ salvage in diabetes, failure with OHA treatment should be detected earliest and necessary measures adopted as early as possible. Recognition, appraisal and assessment of total problem can help a diabetic to enjoy a normal life.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12674176
Nateglinide a new short-acting D-phenylalanine derivative represents a new chemical class of drugs for treating type 2 diabetes that is pharmacologically and therapeutically distinct from currently existing agents. Studies in normal patients and those with type 2 diabetes have shown that nateglinide reduces mealtime blood glucose excursions by physiologic regulation of insulin secretion. Nateglinide binds to and inhibits the K+(ATP) channel of the beta-cell, causing membrane depolarisation, with a subsequent influx of extracellular calcium that results in insulin secretion. A total of 105 patients in 5 centres with type II diabetes mellitus were taken according to the inclusion criteria and given drug treatment and were evaluated on their improvement in fasting and postprandial plasma glucose and glycosylated haemoglobin values for efficacy, besides physician's assessment of the overall safety and efficacy. Nateglinide in a dose of 60 mg before three main meals was given and increased to a maximum of 120 mg thrice daily over the first 3-4 weeks. Nateglinide had to be taken 10 minutes before meals. Duration of treatment was 12 weeks. The patients showed decrease in fasting plasma glucose from 2nd week onwards and reduction in glycosylated haemoglobin by 6th week onwards. Postprandial glucose reduction was also significant at the end of 12th week. The frequency of adverse effects was low and no serious adverse effects were encountered.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12679603
Type-2 diabetes is common in the elderly and when compounded by obesity presents a major challenge for the physician. Obesity plays a central role in the aetiology and pathogenesis of type-2 diabetes. Body weight is determined by an interaction between genetic, environmental and psychosocial factors acting through the physiological mediators of energy intake and expenditure. Obesity is thought to predispose to type-2 diabetes primarily by causing insulin resistance. Education and changes in lifestyle remain the key issues in obesity management. Anti-obesity drugs may delay the onset of diabetes but there is limited experience of their use in elderly patients. Obesity should not be viewed as a cosmetic problem that affects a few individuals, but a major health hazard that is both preventable and amenable to treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12685221
Multiple and important technological innovations in the field of insulin therapy have appeared in the last decade. Insulin analogues with novel pharmacokinetics have been developed. The first of these analogues to appear in the market was insulin lispro. We believe that the most part of the stu-dies carried out with this molecule in comparison with regular insulin were unfair as long as its short duration of action was ignored, since in many of these studies it was administered with meals and with only one dose of intermediate insulin given at night. Several studies done mainly by Italian investigators have proven this concept being true in studies with adequate baseline insulin coverage. Insulin aspart has appeared recently in the market in the United States with very similar effects to lispro. The FDA has recently approved a new ultralong acting analogue. The main advantages are its long, peakless action with better effects during down hours and a lower incidence of hypoglycaemia. We also review other approaches with novel insulin molecules attached to thyroxin or fatty acids in order to create a bridge for binding to plasmatic proteins. These molecules have longer effects and some of them more selective sites of action. Finally we included a brief review of other routes of insulin administration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12685875
Several experimental studies in rats have demonstrated that sulfonylurea treatment increases autoantigen expression in B-cells. This phenomenon may be deleterious for the preservation of residual beta cell function in patients with slowly progressing type 1 diabetes or latent autoimmune diabetes of adult (LADA).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12711836
One hundred and sixteen Latin American type 2 diabetic patients previously only on a diet were enrolled in this multicenter, multinational, nonrandomized, noncontrolled study. Only 109 completed the study. After 8 weeks of treatment with 120 mg of nateglinide, administered prior to each meal, the postprandial (2 h) glucose concentration decreased to 85.11 +/- 5.65 mg/dl (p < 0.0001), and HbA(1c) values decreased to 1.06 +/- 0.10% (p < 0.0001). No response differences were detected in relation to age, gender, or ethnicity, but we did encounter a better response in recently diagnosed patients (<or=1 year). No serious adverse events were observed. We can, therefore, conclude that nateglinide is a well-tolerated, safe, and effective insulinotropic agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12725705
The effects of adding rosiglitazone to existing sulfonylurea (SU) treatment have not previously been studied in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes and no known pre-existing hepatic impairment. Patients were randomized to receive rosiglitazone 2 mg twice daily (R4 + SU) or 4 mg twice daily (R8 + SU) or placebo (SU + P) for 24 weeks in addition to existing SU treatment. Most patients were taking concomitant glibenclamide (34%) or gliclazide (25%). Changes in glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)), fasting plasma glucose (FPG), and plasma insulin concentrations were measured. Of the 530 patients enrolled (45% male, mean age 59 years), 105 were in the SU + P group, 215 in the R4 + SU group, and 210 in the R8 + SU group. The mean baseline HbA(1c) was 9.8%, and FPG was 183.8 mg/dL. Compared with placebo, addition of rosiglitazone (2 or 4 mg twice daily) produced significant decreases in mean HbA(1c) (1.04% and 1.44%, respectively; p < 0.0001) and FPG (21.6 and 36.0 mg/dL, respectively; p < 0.0001). There were statistically significant (p < 0.0001) reductions from baseline in insulin concentration of 23.3 and 30.4 pmol/L in the R4 + SU and R8 + SU groups, respectively. Despite the high prevalence of seropositivity for hepatitis B and/or C at baseline (56%), there was no evidence of hepatotoxicity. No clinically significant changes in routine hematology, biochemistry, or electrocardiogram were observed. The addition of rosiglitazone to SU produced clinically significant improvements in glycemic control in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes. Rosiglitazone plus SU was well tolerated irrespective of hepatitis B and C serological status.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12749508
Repaglinide and glimepiride are relatively new oral hypoglycemic agents. Few data are available concerning their effects on metabolic parameters other than measures of glycemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12773078
To review the chemistry, pharmacology, efficacy, and safety of trivalent chromium in the treatment of type 2 diabetes and hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12789615
Novo Nordisk A/S, under license from Scios Inc, is developing NN-2211, a stable analog of the naturally occurring peptide hormone glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), which stimulates insulin release in response to increases in blood sugar levels, for the potential treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12795025
Theoretical and experimental research data as well as human epidemiological studies on large populations suggest a great difference in influencing cardiovascular processes and alterations among the oral antidiabetic drugs used in the treatment of type II diabetes mellitus. Drugs delaying or inhibiting carbohydrate absorption as well as insulin sensitizers have an unambiguous reducing effect on diabetic cardiovascular complications. Only fluid retention needs precaution during the treatment with thiazolidinedions in patients suffering from heart disease. Among insulin secretizers repaglinid, glibenclamid and glipizide have an ATP-sensitive potassium channel inhibiting effect in the vascular smooth muscle cells, too, reducing hereby vasodilation. Glibenclamide also inhibits ischaemic preconditioning. Therefore, the antidiabetic drug of choice can be decisive in diabetic patients suffering from ischaemic heart diseases or peripheral obliterative disorders. In the case of secondary sulphonylurea resistance and/or severe ischaemic alterations insulin treatment becomes necessary to avoid further cardiovascular complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12797714
This prospective, 16-week, randomised, double-blind, parallel-group study assessed the differential impact of the prandial glucose regulating oral hypoglycaemic drug, repaglinide, and placebo upon perceptions of quality of life (QoL) and treatment satisfaction in pharmacotherapy-naive patients with Type 2 diabetes. In addition, the study assessed whether these outcomes were influenced by the patients' level of glycaemic control. A total of 253 patients were randomised in a 2:1 ratio of repaglinide: placebo, with doses taken flexibly with main meals (2-4 per day), whenever they were eaten. Repaglinide was initiated at 0.5 mg per meal, increased to 1 mg after 4 weeks if fasting plasma glucose exceeded 7.8 mmol/l. QoL and treatment satisfaction outcomes were compared using generic and disease-specific self-assessment measures, previously applied in diabetes: the WHO Wellbeing Questionnaire (WHO-WBQ), WHO Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (WHO-DTSQ) and EuroQoL EQ-5D. Over the trial period, repaglinide-treated patients reported a significant 9% improvement in (WHO-DTSQ) treatment satisfaction score (p < 0.05). No significant increase was associated with placebo. The correlation between decrease in glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and increase in treatment satisfaction (WHO-DTSQ) was -0.22 (p < 0.01). Scores obtained with the other measures did not change significantly during the trial in either group, but the cohort exhibited only a slight reduction in wellbeing (WHO-WBQ) and health status (EQ-5D) at baseline compared with the background population. In conclusion, flexible mealtime dosing with oral medication appears to be well accepted by pharmacotherapy-nave patients with Type 2 diabetes. The results suggest that repaglinide provides a higher level of treatment satisfaction than placebo, and this may in part relate to improved glycaemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12808879
Thiazolidinediones have recently emerged as promising antidiabetic drugs. Unlike other oral antidiabetic drugs, thiazolidinediones function to ameliorate insulin resistance, a primary factor for the development of type 2 diabetes. Thiazolidinediones are ligands of the nuclear receptor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, and their antidiabetic effects appear to be mediated by activation of this receptor. The two currently marketed thiazolidinediones, rosiglitazone and pioglitazone, display similar efficacies in their glucose lowering activities, but interestingly display slightly different clinical and side effect profiles. Understanding the molecular basis for these differences will help in the development of next generation thiazolidinediones that are more efficacious and safer for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12808887
Novo Nordisk is developing NN-414, an orally active beta-cell-selective regulator of insulin release, for the potential treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Phase 1 efficacy trials were underway by November 2000; these trials were ongoing in February 2002 and had been concluded by February 2003.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12809451
Patients with type 2 diabetes are often treated with oral antidiabetic agents plus a basal insulin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12814458
To compare the metabolic and vascular effects of two sulphonylureas (SU), gliclazide (specific for the pancreatic [SUR1] receptor) and glimepiride (a nonspecific agent that also binds to vascular and cardiac [SUR2] receptors), during chronic administration in metformin-treated patients with Type 2 diabetes (T2DM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12817528
The object of this study was to analyze drug interactions between repaglinide, a short-acting insulin secretagogue, and five other drugs interacting with CYP3A4: ketoconazole, rifampicin, ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel (in an oral contraceptive), simvastatin, and nifedipine. In two open-label, two-period, randomized crossover studies, healthy subjects received repaglinide alone, repaglinide on day 5 of ketoconazole treatment, or repaglinide on day 7 of rifampicin treatment. In three open-label, three-period, randomized crossover studies, healthy subjects received 5 days of repaglinide alone; 5 days of ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel, simvastatin, or nifedipine alone; or 5 days of repaglinide concomitant with ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel, simvastatin, or nifedipine. Compared to administration of repaglinide alone, concomitant ketoconazole increased mean AUC0-infinity for repaglinide by 15% and mean Cmax by 7%. Concomitant rifampicin decreased mean AUC0-infinity for repaglinide by 31% and mean Cmax by 26%. Concomitant treatment with CYP3A4 substrates altered mean AUC0-5 h and mean Cmax for repaglinide by 1% and 17% (ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel), 2% and 27% (simvastatin), or 11% and 3% (nifedipine). Profiles of blood glucose concentration following repaglinide dosing were altered by less than 8% by both ketoconazole and rifampicin. In all five studies, most adverse events were related to hypoglycemia, as expected in a normal population given a blood glucose regulator. The safety profile of repaglinide was not altered by pretreatment with ketoconazole or rifampicin or by coadministration with ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel. The incidence of adverse events increased with coadministration of simvastatin or nifedipine compared to either repaglinide or simvastatin/nifedipine treatment alone. No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions occurred between repaglinide and the CYP3A4 substrates ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel, simvastatin, or nifedipine. The pharmacokinetic profile of repaglinide was altered by administration of potent inhibitors or inducers, such as ketoconazole or rifampicin, but to a lesser degree than expected. These results are probably explained by the metabolic pathway of repaglinide that involves other enzymes than CYP3A4, reflected to some extent by a small change in repaglinide pharmacodynamics. Thus, careful monitoring of blood glucose in repaglinide-treated patients receiving strong inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 is recommended, and an increase in repaglinide dose may be necessary. No safety concerns were observed, except a higher incidence in adverse events in patients receiving repaglinide and simvastatin or nifedipine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12822388
Glimepiride is the oral antidiabetic, second-generation sulfonylurea. It is structurally similar to glyburide. Glimepiride exhibited more potent glucose-lowering effects than glyburide and longer duration of hypoglycemic effect. Glimepiride is useful in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent (type II) diabetes mellitus. Glimepiride is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise for non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. Glimepiride reduces glucose levels blood by stimulating insulin release from functional pancreatic beta cells in response to glucose. Glimepiride in daily dose 1 to 8 mg is causing a dose-related decrease blood glucose levels and glycosylated hemoglobin fasting state and postprandially. If the maximum dose of glimepiride fails to lower blood glucose sufficiently, metformine or insuline may be added to glimepiride monotherapy. Glimepiride is very safe drug and adverse effects causing by glimepiride are very rare. The risk of hypoglycemia after use of glimepiride is very small, therefore is the therapy with glimepiride is more preferable than the therapy with glibenclamide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12828829
We report a case of an 82 year-old woman who had two episodes of documented hypoglycemia. Initial laboratory testing revealed hyperinsulinemia and a negative serum sulfonylurea screen. While these data suggested the presence of an insulinoma, further evaluation of the case revealed inadvertent ingestion of glimepiride, a sulfonylurea not included in the standard serum sulfonylurea screen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12828830
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12852703
Sulfonylureas (SUs) have been used for many years as first-line therapy for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus whose blood glucose levels have not been effectively controlled by diet and exercise alone. Glimepiride is a once-daily SU that was introduced in 1995. Since then, a considerable body of evidence has been amassed regarding its use in type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12852706
Many patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) with inadequate long-term blood glucose control with sulfonylurea or metformin monotherapy require additional treatment. The synergistic effects of combining glipizide with metformin on glucose control may be realized by treating the primary effects of type 2 DM, impaired insulin secretion, and insulin resistance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12859222
To assess the short-term direct medical costs and effectiveness associated with achieving recommended glycaemic goals using commonly prescribed first-line oral antihyperglycaemic medications in type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12882864
AC2993 (synthetic exendin-4; exenatide) is a peptide that enhances glucose-dependent insulin secretion, suppresses inappropriately elevated glucagon secretion, and slows gastric emptying. AC2993 also promotes beta-cell proliferation and neogenesis in vitro and in animal models. This study examines the activity and safety of subcutaneously injected AC2993 in patients with type 2 diabetes currently treated with diet and/or oral antidiabetic agents (OAAs).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12885108
Increasing evidence suggests that neurohumoral manifestations of heart failure may lead to insulin resistance, predisposing patients with heart failure to the development of glucose intolerance or worsening of existing diabetes. Theoretically, insulin-sensitizing thiazolidinediones (TZDs) should be beneficial in this patient population. A 74-year-old man with well-compensated systolic dysfunction and longstanding type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with glyburide began therapy with rosiglitazone 4 mg/day, which was increased to 8 mg/day after 1 month. Two weeks later he was seen with a 5-kg weight gain, shortness of breath, bibasilar rales, +S3 gallop, and increased jugular venous distention. Twelve days later symptoms worsened, with pulmonary edema on chest radiograph, continued weight gain, and +4 pitting edema resistant to oral diuretics. The patient was admitted to the hospital for exacerbation of heart failure. Five days after discharge he was readmitted for similar symptoms, including an 11.8-kg weight gain. He reported adherence to drug therapy and diet. Rosiglitazone was immediately discontinued and 11 days later the man's weight stabilized to 79 kg and remained between 79 and 80 kg 2 and 3 months after discharge. This case demonstrates that TZDs may precipitate weight gain and pulmonary and peripheral edema in patients with stable heart failure. Earlier reports documented similar symptoms in patients without a history of heart failure. Although current recommendations state that TZDs should not be administered to patients with New York Heart Association class III or IV disease, practitioners should be aware that these adverse effects also may occur in patients with milder forms heart failure as well as those without heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12918894
Nateglinide is a new oral antidiabetic agent that stimulates insulin release promptly after its pre-meal administration in a strongly glucose-dependent fashion. Because its insulinotropic effects are short in duration, nateglinide specifically targets postprandial hyperglycaemia with a low potential to elicit hypoglycaemia or sustained hyperinsulinaemia. Nateglinide has an excellent safety and tolerability profile, and its efficacy in reducing HbA1c in monotherapy (120 mg before meals) is comparable to that of metformin, sulphonylureas, thiazolidinediones or acarbose (-0.5 to -1.5%). When combined with metformin, which primarily reduces fasting glucose levels, nateglinide's effects are additive. In our clinical experience, nateglinide is a particularly good therapeutic option in newly diagnosed, treatment-naive patients; elderly patients in whom hypoglycaemia is a concern; patients with kidney failure or mild hepatic impairment; patients taking low-dose sulphonylureas who encounter problems with hypoglycaemia; and patients failing to achieve adequate glycaemic control on metformin or thiazolidinedione monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12940610
We evaluated the benefits and safety of nateglinide, a novel oral hypoglycemic agent, in type 2 diabetes patients with renal failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12974145
The purpose of the study was to find out differences between treatments of diabetes type 2 after secondary oral antidiabetic drug failure. Three different methods of treatment were compared: lispro insulin in combination with metformin, glimepiride and metformin combination or two daily doses of biphasic insulin 30/70 together with bed-time NPH insulin. The study included 87 patients with diabetes mellitus type 2 randomly distributed into 3 different treatment groups. Fasting and postprandial glucose were analyzed by enzymatic colorimetric method and HbA1c was measured by ion exchange chromatography. HbA1c significantly decreased in all three study groups. The decrease was mostly expressed among patients treated with lispro and metformin. When focused on postprandial glucose control, antihyperglycemic metformin and insulin lispro therapy has greater impact on the overall metabolic control (decrease in level of HbA1c) in comparison with the above mentioned more traditional approaches.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14526261
In type 2 diabetic patients mealtime glucose fluctuations are important determinants of overall glucose control and overall risk of diabetes cardiovascular complications. In fact, acute elevation of plasma glucose concentrations trigger an array of tissue response that may contribute to development of such vascular complications since it may result in a thrombophilic condition, causes endothelial dysfunction (possibly through a reduction of nitric oxide availability) and is responsible for non-enzymatic glycation and production of free- radicals with ensuing oxidative stress. To keep post-prandial glucose with narrow range, metiglinide analogues drugs have been developed. In particular, repaglinide and nateglinide seem the most useful ones. In fact, both drugs improve 1(st) phase insulin release but they do not affect the total daily amount of insulin released by the pancreas. Due to the mechanism of action and to pharmacokinetic properties, repaglinide and nateglinide allow diabetic patients to get a more tight metabolic glucose control with a contemporary reduction in the cases of severe hypoglycaemia. In conclusions, repaglinide and nateglinide are new and powerful pharmacological tools not only for achieving a better metabolic glucose control but also for preventing the development of diabetes-related cardiovascular complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14613469
To evaluate the change in hemoglobin A1C (A1C) in patients with type 2 diabetes switched from coadministration of a sulfonylurea (SU), glyburide or glipizide, and metformin (SU+Met) to a single glyburide-metformin tablet.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7479199
To determine the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of glipizide given as a single, oral, 20-mg dose, versus three different divided-dose regimens totaling 20 mg each.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7486486
To determine basal levels of cytosolic calcium ([Ca2+]i) and phagocytic activity in polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs) from patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes (NIDDM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7555472
Optimal insulin regimens for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients with secondary failure are controversial. We evaluated the efficacy, side effects, and quality of life of patients receiving insulin either alone or in combination with their previous oral hypoglycemic agents (OHAs).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7555484
To determine whether elevated levels of cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients could be decreased by policosanol, a new cholesterol-lowering drug. NIDDM predisposes patients to coronary artery disease (CAD) through the direct action of hyperglycemia on the arteries as well as the dyslipidemia induced by NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7556806
The efficacy of the new intestinal alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, miglitol, and glibenclamide were compared in a 6-month double-blind controlled protocol involving 100 non-insulin dependent diabetic patients under diet alone. HbA1c levels (initially between 7 and 11%) were reduced (p < 0.05): -0.78 +/- 0.21% after miglitol and -1.18 +/- 0.20% after glibenclamide. The difference between the two treatments was not significant, although glibenclamide appeared to be more active than miglitol at 8 (p = 0.002) and 16 weeks (p = 0.01) but not at 24 weeks. Fasting glycaemia decreased after miglitol (8.7 +/- 0.3 vs 9.6 +/- 0.3 mmol/l, p = 0.005) and after glibenclamide (8.0 +/- 0.3 vs 9.1 +/- 0.3, p = 0.007). After miglitol, a decrease was noted after breakfast (p < 0.001) and lunch (p < 0.001). The same was true for glibenclamide (p = 0.004 and p < 0.001 respectively). A significant reduction in glucose incremental area during a standard meal test was noted at the end of miglitol (p = 0.008) or glibenclamide treatment (p = 0.04). Subgroups of nonresponders to both treatments were identified (10/49 with miglitol, 9/47 with glibenclamide). Side effects were recorded in 10 patients treated with miglitol (flatulence and meteorism, diarrhoea, 1 discontinued therapy) and in 10 treated with glibenclamide (asthenia, sensation of hunger). This study indicates that miglitol is suitable for initial application in diet-resistant Type 2 diabetic patients, providing, a persistent effect and acceptable side effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7587846
It is not clear whether intensive pharmacological therapy can be effectively sustained in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). The relative risks and benefits of intensive insulin therapy in NIDDM are not well defined. Accordingly, we designed a feasibility study that compared standard therapy and intensive therapy in a group of NIDDM men who required insulin due to sustained hyperglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7587856
To compare the effect of bedtime NPH insulin or preprandial regular insulin combined with glibenclamide on metabolic control in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients with secondary failure to sulfonylurea therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7589771
Ten patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus who were being treated with a sulphonylureal compound but whose glucose metabolism needed further improvement were given a combination of their usual sulphonylurea treatment and an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor. Treatment with the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor (0.6 mg/day), in addition to glibenclamide (7.5 mg/day in two patients; 5.0 mg/day in four; 2.5 mg/day in one) or tolbutamide (500 mg/day in three patients) for 4 weeks, improved hyperglycaemia after meals from 237-247 mg/dl to 192 mg/dl, and reduced glycosylated haemoglobin levels from 8.5-8.6% to 7.9% without causing hypoglycaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7589820
The objective of the U.K. Prospective Diabetes Study is to determine whether improved blood glucose control in type II diabetes will prevent the complications of diabetes and whether any specific therapy is advantageous or disadvantageous. The study will report in 1998, when the median duration from randomization will be 11 years. This report is on the efficacy of therapy over 6 years of follow-up and the overall incidence of diabetic complications. Subjects comprised 4,209 newly diagnosed type II diabetic patients who after 3 months' diet were asymptomatic and had fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 6.0-15.0 mmol/l. The study consists of a randomized controlled trial with two main comparisons: 1) 3,867 patients with 1,138 allocated to conventional therapy, primarily with diet, and 2,729 allocated to intensive therapy with additional sulfonylurea or insulin, which increase insulin supply, aiming for FPG < 6 mmol/l; and 2) 753 obese patients with 411 allocated to conventional therapy and 342 allocated to intensive therapy with metformin, which enhances insulin sensitivity. In the first comparison, in 2,287 subjects studied for 6 years, intensive therapy with sulfonylurea and insulin similarly improved glucose control compared with conventional therapy, with median FPG at 1 year of 6.8 and 8.2 mmol/l, respectively (P < 0.0001). and median HbA1c of 6.1 and 6.8%, respectively (P < 0.0001). During the next 5 years, the FPG increased progressively on all therapies (P < 0.0001) with medians at 6 years in the conventional and intensive groups, FPG 9.5 and 7.8 mmol/l, and HbA1c 8.0 and 7.1%, respectively. The glycemic deterioration was associated with progressive loss of beta-cell function. In the second comparison, in 548 obese subjects studied for 6 years, metformin improved glucose control similarly to intensive therapy with sulfonylurea or insulin. Metformin did not increase body weight or increase the incidence of hypoglycemia to the same extent as therapy with sulfonylurea or insulin. A high incidence of clinical complications occurred by 6-year follow-up. Of all subjects, 18.0% had suffered one or more diabetes-related clinical endpoints, with 12.1% having a macrovascular and 5.7% a microvascular endpoint. Sulfonylurea, metformin, and insulin therapies were similarly effective in improving glucose control compared with a policy of diet therapy. The study is examining whether the continued improved glucose control, obtained by intensive therapy compared with conventional therapy (median over 6 years HbA1c 6.6% compared with 7.4%), will be clinically advantageous in maintaining health.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7601013
The biguanide metformin (dimethylbiguanide) is an oral antihyperglycaemic agent used in the management of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). It reduces blood glucose levels, predominantly by improving hepatic and peripheral tissue sensitivity to insulin without affecting the secretion of this hormone. Metformin also appears to have potentially beneficial effects on serum lipid levels and fibrinolytic activity, although the long term clinical implications of these effects are unclear. Metformin possesses similar antihyperglycaemic efficacy to sulphonylureas in obese and nonobese patients with NIDDM. Additionally, interim data from the large multicentre United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) indicated similar antihyperglycaemic efficacy for metformin and insulin in newly diagnosed patients with NIDDM. Unlike the sulphonylureas and insulin, however, metformin treatment is not associated with increased bodyweight. Addition of metformin to existing antidiabetic therapy confers enhanced antihyperglycaemic efficacy. This may be of particular use in improving glycaemic control in patients with NIDDM not adequately controlled with sulphonylurea monotherapy, and may serve to reduce or eliminate the need for daily insulin injections in patients with NIDDM who require this therapy. The acute, reversible gastrointestinal adverse effects seen with metformin may be minimised by administration with or after food, and by using lower dosages, increased slowly where necessary. Lactic acidosis due to metformin is rare, and the risk of this complication may be minimised by observance of prescribing precautions and contraindications intended to avoid accumulation of the drug or lactate in the body. Unlike the sulphonylureas, metformin does not cause hypoglycaemia. Thus, metformin is an effective antihyperglycaemic agent which appears to improve aberrant plasma lipid and fibrinolytic profiles associated with NIDDM. Possible long term clinical benefits of this drug with regard to cardiovascular mortality and morbidity are not yet established but are being assessed in a major ongoing study. Since metformin does not promote weight gain or hypoglycaemia it should be considered first-line pharmacotherapy in obese patients with NIDDM inadequately controlled by nonpharmacological measures. Metformin appears similarly effective for the pharmacological management of NIDDM in nonobese patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7623902
Sulfonylurea drugs have been the only oral therapy available for patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) in the United States. Recently, however, metformin has been approved for the treatment of NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7648802
Insulin and sulphonylurea therapies have both been reported to cause weight gain in Type 2 diabetic patients whereas metformin does not have this adverse effect. The mechanism for this difference is unclear. We have investigated in a cross-over study the effect of sulphonylurea and metformin therapy on energy expenditure and body composition in 10 Type 2 diabetic patients (7 females, 3 males) of various weights (mean body mass index 33.4 (SD 7.6 kg m-2)). Free living total energy expenditure was measured over 14 days by the doubly labelled water method adjusted for urinary glucose energy losses and resting energy expenditure by ventilated hood indirect calorimetry. Overall, total energy expenditure (12.88 +/- 4.17 vs 13.1 +/- 3.69 MJ 24 h-1) and resting metabolic rate (7.30 +/- 1.75 vs 7.23 +/- 1.74 MJ 24 h-1) were similar on metformin and sulphonylurea therapy, respectively. When adjusted for differences in fat free mass, resting metabolic rate on sulphonylurea therapy was slightly but significantly lower (mean difference -5.5 kJ 24 h-1 kg-1, 95% CI -1.2, -9.9 kJ 24 h-1 kg-1, p < 0.05). Fat free mass also increased significantly by 1.3 kg (95% CI 0.4, 2.4 kg, p < 0.05) when on sulphonylurea therapy, thus compensating for the lower resting metabolic rate per kg fat free mass to leave overall resting metabolic rate unchanged compared to metformin therapy. We also investigated the effect of adding metformin to six Type 2 diabetic patients already on insulin. This did not lead to any measurable changes in any of the components of energy expenditure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7657854
To assess the influence of orlistat on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (the blood glucose-lowering effect) of glyburide, an open-label, placebo-controlled, randomized, two-way crossover study was done in 12 healthy male volunteers. Each subject received single 5-mg oral doses of glyburide (Micronase; The Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, MI) on the fifth day of treatment with placebo (treatment A) and 80-mg orlistat (treatment B) three times a day for 4 1/3 days; the two treatments were separated by a five-day washout period. Serial blood samples were collected before and at appropriate intervals after each glyburide dose to determine plasma concentrations and blood glucose levels. Values of Cmax and AUC of glyburide showed an equality of the two treatments by the analysis of variance. There was an apparent correlation between blood glucose level and the logarithm of plasma glyburide concentration; this relationship appeared to not be altered when glyburide was administered with orlistat. In conclusion, orlistat administered at doses of 80-mg three times daily does not significantly alter the pharmacokinetics and blood glucose-lowering effect of a single 5-mg oral dose of glyburide in healthy volunteers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7662219
Insulin resistance that exists in patients with essential hypertension and in those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) may be the common denominator for the impaired glucose homeostasis and elevated blood pressure (BP) levels in patients with NIDDM. Therefore, treatment that improves insulin action may also improve BP levels. Consequently, a four-phase (glipizide v insulin) cross-over design study was conducted to determine a better effect of glipizide treatment on insulin sensitivity and the effect this has on BP in 19 NIDDM patients. Patients were subjected to 1 month of diet only (phase I) followed by 3 months of glipizide treatment (phase II), then an additional 1 month of diet only (phase III), and finally 3 months of insulin treatment (phase IV). At the end of phases I, II, and IV oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT) were performed and plasma glucose, insulin, and C-peptide levels were analyzed. Fasting plasma glucose, insulin, total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides, glycated hemoglobin, fructosamine, and 2-h postprandial plasma glucose were also analyzed at each phase. Supine and sitting BP levels and body weights were determined biweekly during the study. With the exception of higher plasma insulin and C-peptide levels during the OGTT (area under the curve) in phase IV (insulin) v phase II (glipizide) (both P < .05), and higher fasting plasma insulin levels (P < .06), there were no consistently significant metabolic differences between phases IV and II.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7667166
To characterize the lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities in patients with diabetes mellitus and evaluate the risks and benefits of marketed pharmacologic therapies, a MEDLINE search of the National Library of Medicine data base was performed of studies published from January 1966 to March 1994. Clinical trials assessing effects on lipids and lipoproteins, and adverse effects of marketed lipid-lowering agents were extracted. Reviews and other relevant articles were included if they provided information regarding lipid and lipoprotein metabolism or guidelines on the treatment of dyslipidemias in patients with diabetes mellitus. An extensive review of clofibrate was not included. The most common dyslipidemia in patients with poorly controlled insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is combined elevated triglyceride and cholesterol levels, with reduced high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (mixed hyperlipidemia). Hypertriglyceridemia combined with a reduced HDL cholesterol is the most common dyslipidemia in patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, but essentially any pattern of dyslipidemia may be present. Small and dense low-density lipoprotein (LDL), glycosylation of lipoproteins, and increased oxidized lipoproteins may be present in patients with diabetes mellitus; all contribute to accelerated atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Insulin therapy generally corrects quantitative lipid abnormalities in patients with IDDM, so drug treatment is seldom indicated. Diet, exercise, and insulin or oral sulfonylureas will improve hypertriglyceridemia and low HDL concentrations, but do not always return them to normal. Drug therapy is indicated when nonpharmacologic measures are inadequate. It is administered based on the effects of each agent on lipids and lipoproteins, patient age, adverse effect profile, patient tolerability, and drug-disease and drug-drug interactions. A fibric acid derivative is the drug of choice for marked hypertriglyceridemia in patients with diabetes mellitus. Niacin can worsen glycemic control, but it may be required in severe hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, or mixed hyperlipidemia. Bile-acid binding resins may accentuate hypertriglyceridemia but may be useful in selected patients with marked hypercholesterolemia and normal triglycerides. Hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reduced inhibitors are preferred in patients with elevated LDL cholesterol and mild hypertriglyceridemia. Patients with marked lipid abnormalities or mixed hyperlipidemias may require carefully dosed combinations of lipid-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7697692
This study investigated the long-term effect of insulin or the combination of insulin and an oral hypoglycemic compound (glipizide) on the skeletal muscle capillary basement membrane width in insulin-requiring diabetic patients. Seventy diabetic patients were randomized to treatment with either insulin-placebo or insulin-glipizide (5 mg/d) for 3 years. Of these, only 61 patients completed the study; 27 patients received insulin-placebo and 34 patients received insulin-glipizide. Three skeletal muscle (quadriceps femoris) biopsies were performed in all patients over a 3-year period. Glycosylated hemoglobin A1 was determined every 100 +/- 20 days, including plasma glucose levels. Muscle capillary basement membrane width was quantitated by a previously described method. After approximately 16 months, glycosylated hemoglobin A1 decreased significantly in each group from its baseline (P < 0.001 insulin-glipizide group and P < 0.025 insulin-placebo), although no statistically significant difference was seen between the two groups. After 3 years this decrease was statistically significant (P < 0.001) only in the insulin-glipizide group. At baseline, no statistically significant difference was found in the muscle capillary basement membrane width between the two groups. In spite of the significant decrease in glycosylated hemoglobin A1 in both groups after 14 to 16 months, only muscle capillary basement membrane width in the insulin-glipizide group decreased significantly compared with baseline. Patients receiving insulin-placebo showed a gradual increase in the muscle capillary basement membrane width, which after 3 years was significantly higher than baseline (P < 0.02). Although the mechanisms by which the addition of glipizide to insulin treatment reduced the thickening of the muscle capillary basement membrane are not clearly understood, the current findings suggest that diabetic microangiopathy is not necessarily progressive and that prophylaxis may be attained.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7698517
Microvascular and neuropathic complications of diabetes mellitus can be significantly decreased by long-term, near-normoglycemic regulation in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Prevention or delay of onset of hyperglycemia in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients should reduce morbidity and mortality from these complications. NIDDM can be nearly normoglycemic when diagnosed by screening before its symptomatic stage or when clinically hyperglycemic NIDDM goes into remission. One potential strategy to delay the onset of hyperglycemia in individuals at high risk is chronic low-dose sulfonylurea therapy. Thirty black NIDDM subjects who recently had developed near-normoglycemia were followed with no treatment or were randomly assigned to a 3-year, double-blind glipizide or placebo treatment. Baseline and follow-up parameters included fasting plasma glucose (FPG), HbA1c, plasma insulin, and glucose responses to an oral glucose tolerance test and insulin action, as determined by the euglycemic insulin clamp. Baseline FPG and HbA1c for all three groups were 107 mg/dl and 4.7%, respectively. Relapse to hyperglycemia was defined as an FPG level > or = 140 mg/dl on several consecutive visits or an FPG level > or = 140 mg/dl and symptoms of hyperglycemia. During the course of the treatment and follow-up, hyperglycemia occurred in 6 of 10 subjects in the no treatment group, 6 of 10 in the placebo group, and 2 of 10 in the glipizide treatment group. Prolongation of near-normoglycemia was significantly (P < 0.05) increased by low-dose (2.5 mg/day) glipizide compared with placebo treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7705380
We have examined the impact of race and positive family history of type 2 diabetes on glucose/insulin dynamics and the two components of glucose disposal in healthy, first-degree relatives of black and white American patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are at a greater risk from the disease and their healthy control subjects. Seventeen black and 15 white relatives were studied. Twenty-two black people and 24 white people, without family history of type 2 diabetes, served as healthy control subjects. Standard oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and tolbutamide-modified frequent sampling intravenous glucose tolerance (FSIGT) tests were performed in each subject. Insulin sensitivity index (SI) and glucose effectiveness (SG) were calculated using the MINIMOD method described by Bergman et al. Mean fasting and post-stimulation serum glucose levels were not significantly different in the black and white relatives. However, mean serum insulin responses to oral and/or intravenous stimulation were significantly greater in the blacks than whites, irrespective of positive family history of diabetes. The mean SI was significantly (P < 0.02) lower (52%) in the black (3.67 +/- 0.56) than the white [7.50 +/- 1.93 x 10(-4) min-1 (mU1)-1] relatives. Comparing the healthy controls, the mean SI was significantly (P < 0.02) lower (51%) in black than white controls (4.84 +/- 0.78 vs. 9.71 +/- 1.27 x 10 min-1(mU1)-1]. Mean SG and KG were greater (P < 0.05) in the blacks than whites, irrespective of family history of diabetes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7733122
Acarbose delays release of glucose from complex carbohydrates and disaccharides by inhibiting intestinal alpha-glucosidases, thereby attenuating postprandial increments in blood glucose and insulin. This multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study compared the efficacy and safety of diet alone, acarbose, tolbutamide, and acarbose-plus-tolbutamide in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7768272
Recent animal studies have demonstrated that selective blockade of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels of vascular smooth muscle results in a significant increase in peripheral vascular tone. The main aim of this study was to assess whether glyburide, a selective blocker of KATP channels and commonly used antidiabetic agent, influences resting blood flow and reactive hyperemic response of peripheral tissues of normal subjects. Baseline calf blood flow was measured non-invasively in six normal subjects with femoral venous occlusive plethysmography. Calf blood flow was also serially measured every 30-60 s after the release of calf arterial occlusion (10 min duration). Reactive hyperemia was expressed in terms of peak post-occlusive flow, duration of hyperemia and reactive hyperemic volume. In each subject, baseline flow and reactive hyperemia were measured before (control) and every hour for 5 h after the oral ingestion of either 7.5 mg glyburide or a placebo on two separate days. Baseline calf flow declined by 30 and 42% of control values after 1 and 2 h of glyburide intake (P < 0.05) with a return to control values by hours 3, 4 and 5. Peak post-occlusive flow after 1, 2 and 3 h of glyburide ingestion was lower than control values by 22, 30 and 28%, respectively (P < 0.05). The duration of reactive hyperemia after 2 and 3 h of glyburide ingestion was significantly longer than control values (P < 0.05), whereas reactive hyperemic volume remained unaffected by glyburide intake. Placebo elicited no significant changes in baseline flow or reactive hyperemia throughout the 5-h experimental period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7777712
Glucose control in NIDDM is prone to progressive deterioration due to secondary failure to oral hypoglycemic therapy. Insulin may subsequently be required for optimal control in spite of peripheral hyperinsulinemia. In Mexico, diabetes associated with obesity is common. We therefore designed a prospective study combining insulin and chloropropamide in order to evaluate any improvement in insulin response to a standardized meal load and a consequent amelioration of glucose control. METHODS. Twenty diabetic patients with secondary failure to full doses of hypoglycemic drugs and moderate hyperglycemia were recruited. Therapy was initiated with human insulin 20 IU/day and 500 mg cholopropamide, titrating insulin dosage in order to achieve euglycemia. Before treatment and at the end of the study period, a glucose/insulin/C peptide response curve to a mixed standardized meal was performed. Blood glucose, serum lipids fructosamine and glycosylated hemoglobin levels were also determined. All patients were followed by capillary glucose measurements three times a week and glucose and fructosamine concentrations every two weeks during the study period. RESULTS. All patients required less insulin, and glucose control improved significantly. Glucose, fructosamine and glycosylated hemoglobin levels decreased from 262 mg/dL, 369 mmol/L and 14% to 111 mg/dL, 252 mmol/L, and 8% respectively; all differences were statistically significant. Insulin and C peptide levels increased significantly from 22.2 mU/mL and 1.65 ng/mL to 29.8 mU/mL and 1.97 ng/mL, respectively. When we measured the area under the curve, total values improved from 110 and 7.69 to 127 and 9.37, respectively; this was also statistically significant. Lipids levels decreased significantly, including triglicerides, total and LDL cholesterol whereas HDL cholesterol levels increased. CONCLUSIONS. Glucose control improved in our patient cohort the pancreatic insulin response probably due to a more adequate glycemic microenvironment and a possible enhanced exogenous and endogenous insulin function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7781667
In order to evaluate whether Lp(a), a lipoprotein that is potentially thrombogenic and atherogenic, is a potential risk factor for CAD in non-insulin-dependent diabetes (NIDDM), we compared the Lp(a) and its distribution in 145 NIDDM patients with that in 94 healthy control subjects. Furthermore, we studied the effect of insulin treatment on serum Lp(a) in 108 patients with NIDDM. Male and female NIDDM patients had similar Lp(a) concentrations to healthy controls (median value 167 mg L-1, range 15-1550 mg L-1 vs. 157 mg L-1, range 15-919 mg L-1, NS and 92, range 15-1190 mg L-1 vs. 103 mg L-1, range 15-842 mg L-1, NS). Also, the cumulative distribution of Lp(a) did not differ between the NIDDM patients and healthy subjects. Insulin treatment increased Lp(a) in diabetics with a Lp(a) concentration of less than 300 mg L-1, but this effect was not related to the concomitant improvement in metabolic control (mean change (+/- SEM) of HbA1c from 9.80 +/- 0.15 to 8.00 +/- 0.12; P < 0.001). In subjects with elevated Lp(a) concentrations (> 300 mg L-1) the Lp(a) concentration was unaffected by insulin, despite a similar improvement in glycaemic control. These results suggest that insulin may modulate the concentration of Lp(a).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7821127
To quantify the effect of metformin on the metabolism of triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoprotein of intestinal origin in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) who had responded to sulfonylurea but still had fasting hyperglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7821128
To assess and compare the therapeutic efficacy and safety of metformin (M) and sulfonylurea (glyburide, G), alone and in various combinations, in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7821133
To determine whether short-term strict control of blood glucose can improve abnormal visual evoked potentials (VEPs) in poorly controlled diabetic patients with no overt diabetic complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7821171
To examine the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of glyburide after single- and multiple-dose administration in patients with type II diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7825173
Changes of diabetic control during rehabilitation therapy was studied retrospectively in 33 cases of diabetic stroke. Diabetic control was not deteriorated in any cases during rehabilitation therapy. In 21 cases, treatment of diabetes was not changed during rehabilitation therapy and the levels of fasting plasma glucose were decreased in all of them. Doses of hypoglycemic agents was reduced without significant deterioration of diabetic control in 9 cases whose diabetic control was excellent, and in 2 cases who experienced hypoglycemic attack during rehabilitation therapy. In these cases, oral hypoglycemic agent was reduced from 2 to 1 tablet and insulin from 32 to 21 units per day on average. These results indicate that training in the stroke rehabilitation moderately improves diabetic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7833731
To assess the relative efficacy of treatments for non-insulin dependent diabetes over three years from diagnosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7836551
To identify the effects of co-trimoxazole on the elimination and disposition kinetics of glipizide, eight healthy male volunteers were studied in an unblinded, randomized, cross-over trial with two phases (no treatment or co-trimoxazole 160/800 mg twice a day). During each phase, subjects were treated at home for 7 days with one of the treatment regimens, followed by a 24-hour hospitalization for a single-dose challenge with 10-mg oral glipizide and detailed blood studies. A 7-day washout period was interspersed between the phases. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters were determined and compared using the Student's t-test for paired observations. Glipizide area under the curve (AUC), clearance, and half life for treatment and control phases were 5758 +/- 1874 versus 5176 +/- 1505 micrograms/L/hour (P = .21), 0.41 +/- 0.15 versus 0.45 +/- 0.14 mL/min/kg (P = .27), and 5.13 +/- 2.10 versus 3.95 +/- 1.37 hours (P = .04), respectively. Twenty-four-hour glucose AUCs for treatment and control phases were 112.24 +/- 8.76 versus 114.86 +/- 11.98 mmol/L/hour (P = .55), respectively. The only parameter reaching statistical significance was glipizide half life, but the difference is of doubtful clinical significance because of difficulty in identifying a clear elimination phase in several subjects. It is concluded that co-trimoxazole administration did not significantly alter glipizide disposition and elimination kinetics in this study population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7843470
Forty-eight diabetic subjects with diet-failed Type 2 mellitus, aged 40-69 years, were randomised to metformin (24 patients) or glipizide (24 patients) therapy, and followed prospectively for 12 months. Most subjects were obese. Metformin gave better fasting plasma glucose control compared to glipizide at 24 (p < 0.01), 36 (p < 0.05) and 52 weeks (p < 0.05) with a lower HbA1 concentration at 52 weeks (p < 0.05). Metformin treated patients lost weight whereas glipizide treated subjects gained weight. The weight change between the treatment groups reached significance at 4 weeks (p < 0.05) and was highly significant (p < 0.001) at 8, 12, 24, 36 and 52 weeks. There were no significant changes in either fasting plasma lipid or blood lactate levels in either the metformin or glipizide treated groups. Both drugs caused a similar reduction in albumin excretion rates. In conclusion, metformin gave better glycaemic control than glipizide, with weight loss rather than weight gain in obese Type 2 patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7848543
The sulphonylureas and the biguanides are widely used as adjuncts to dietary measures in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent (type 2) diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Adverse effect profiles differ markedly between the sulphonylureas and biguanides, reflecting differences in chemical structure and mode of action. Sulphonylureas are generally well tolerated, although pharmacokinetic differences between these agents have important clinical implications. The main adverse effect associated with sulphonylureas is hypoglycaemia. This effect is a predictable consequence of the principal pharmacological effect of these drugs, i.e. sensitisation of the islet beta-cell to glucose, resulting in enhanced endogenous insulin secretion. Sulphonylurea-induced suppression of hepatic glucose production may cause profound and protracted hypoglycaemia, especially in elderly patients, in individuals with intercurrent illnesses and reduced caloric intake, or when taken in combination with other compounds with hypoglycaemic potential, e.g. alcohol (ethanol). Sulphonylureas with a longer duration of action, notably chlorpropamide and glibenclamide (glyburide), are more liable to induce serious hypoglycaemia, particularly when drug elimination is reduced by renal impairment. Other drugs such as salicylates may potentiate the actions of sulphonylureas, thereby increasing the risk of hypoglycaemia. Biguanide therapy is associated with alterations in lactate homeostasis which under certain clinical circumstances may result in fatal lactic acidosis. Phenformin is associated with a markedly greater risk of lactic acidosis than metformin. Phenformin has been withdrawn in many countries for this reason. All biguanides must be avoided in patients with renal impairment, hepatic dysfunction and cardiac failure--conditions where drug accumulation or disordered lactate metabolism may predispose to lactic acidosis. Phenformin should not be given to individuals who exhibit a severe, genetically conferred hepatic defect of hydroxylation which impedes metabolism of this drug. Less seriously, the biguanides are associated with a relatively high incidence of gastrointestinal adverse effects which limit compliance. Acarbose, a competitive inhibitor of intestinal alpha-glucosidases, has recently been introduced. In contrast to the sulphonylureas and biguanides, acarbose has not been associated with life-threatening adverse effects. This reflects the low systemic absorption of the drug and, predictably, its principal unwanted effects are gastrointestinal disturbances resulting from iatrogenic carbohydrate malabsorption.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7851069
Hyperinsulinaemia and abnormalities in hepatic insulin extraction commonly coexist in ethnic groups with severe insulin resistance. Therefore, we compared the effects of ethnicity on glucose/insulin/C-peptide dynamics, hepatic insulin extraction, and insulin sensitivity in healthy black (n = 32) and white (n = 30) Americans. Standard oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and tolbutamide-modified, frequently sampled, intravenous glucose tolerance (FSIVGT) tests were performed in each subject. Insulin sensitivity index (S1)) was calculated using the MINIMOD method described by Bergman et al. Basal and post-stimulation hepatic insulin extraction were calculated by the molar ratios of C-peptide and insulin concentrations during the basal steady state and areas under the post-stimulation hormone curves, respectively. Apart from a slightly greater mean serum glucose peak response after oral glucose in the whites, mean glucose levels were identical in the blacks and whites during both stimulations. In contrast, serum insulin levels at basal and during both stimulations were significantly greater (2-3 fold) in the blacks than whites. However, the corresponding C-peptide responses were identical in both groups. The basal and postprandial hepatic insulin extraction were 33% and 45% lower in the blacks when compared to whites, respectively. The mean S1 was significantly (p < 0.02) lower in the blacks (4.93 +/- 0.46) than the whites (7.17 +/- 0.88 x 10(-4).min-1 (mU l-1)-1). We conclude that ethnicity may be a major determinant of the mechanism of peripheral hyperinsulinaemia and insulin insensitivity in black and white Americans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7858767
Glibenclamide, a hypoglycemic sulfonylurea, has shown antiarrhythmic effects in acutely ischemic myocardium. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug in preventing ventricular fibrillation in diabetic patients with acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7859936
Bedtime insulin (BI)/daytime sulfonylurea (DSU) therapy was studied double-blind in 30 non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus subjects in whom sulfonylurea (SU) therapy had failed. Subjects were switched to glipizide for 2 months (phase I) to confirm failure (fasting plasma glucose [FPG] 12.0 +/- 0.4 mmol/l) and then randomly assigned into three groups: BI-DSU; BI-no DSU; and DSU-no BI. During phase II (3 months), the BI dose was fixed (20 U/1.73 m2, low-dose). In phase III (3 months), BI was titrated up (high-dose) to achieve good control or until hypoglycemic symptoms prevented further dose increases. In phase IV (6 months), 25 of the 30 original subjects received open-labeled, high-dose BI-DSU. Low-dose BI-DSU markedly reduced FPG (13.6 +/- 0.8 to 8.0 +/- 0.6 mmol/l, P < 0.001), mean 24-h glucose (P < 0.001), HbA1c (8.9 +/- 0.7 to 7.6 +/- 0.3%, P = 0.07), and basal hepatic glucose production (HGP) (P < 0.005). A positive correlation (r = 0.69, P < 0.05) between the declines in FPG and HGP was observed. Neither low-dose BI alone nor DSU alone reduced FPG, mean 24-h glucose, HbA1c, or basal HGP. High-dose (40 +/- 5 U/day) BI plus DSU further reduced the FPG (6.3 +/- 0.6 mmol/l), HbA1c (7.1 +/- 0.3%), mean 24-h plasma glucose, and basal HGP (all P < 0.05 vs. phase II).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7862618
Metformin is a biguanide antidiabetic medication, that has been in use for over 30 years. Its mechanism of action, unknown until a few years ago, is now linked to an improved peripheral sensitivity to insulin, through a stimulated tissue glucose uptake by a transporter linked system. Interest in metformin has been revived by the recent observation of a specific activity of this agent on some of the major traits of the so called 'polymetabolic syndrome' (or 'syndrome X'), characterized by: insulin resistance, hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension and reduced fibrinolytic activity. Metformin, in studies examining one or more of these, has been shown, possibly through its peripheral insulin sensitizing mechanism, to correct most of the major symptoms characterizing this insulin resistance syndrome. Metformin, similarly to the other biguanide phenformin, has been rated as potentially dangerous, because of the possible induction of lactic acidosis, in some cases with a fatal outcome. Metformin is, however, associated with a very low incidence of lactic acidosis because, differently from phenformin, it does not undergo liver metabolism and, as a consequence, there are no high-risk groups, displaying an impaired metabolic handling. In this review, in addition to an overall evaluation of the more recent data on the mechanism of action and clinical use of metformin, a detailed clinical analysis of all published cases of lactic acidosis is provided. These data indicate that the risk in metformin use is negligible, provided that care is taken when prescribing the drug to patients with suspected clinical risks of lactic acidosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7879817
Glyburide is an effective hypoglycemic agent in patients with type II diabetes even after the loss of its ability to increase insulin secretion. The exact mechanism is unknown. In an attempt to describe the direct effect of glyburide on glucose metabolism, a very low dose of glyburide (20 micrograms/kg body weight) was given orally to 12 healthy volunteers in an attempt to increase blood concentrations of the drug without causing a marked increase in insulin secretion. Fasting hepatic glucose production (HGP), carbohydrate oxidation (CO), leucine appearance, leucine oxidation, and fat oxidation were determined between hours 3 and 4 and hours 7 and 8. The changes seen in the glyburide-treated volunteers were compared with the changes seen in 5 non-treated, healthy volunteers during the same 8-hour period. Mean blood glucose decreased greater in the glyburide-treated volunteers (20 +/- 2% vs 5 +/- 2%, P < 0.01). Insulin and C-peptide concentrations after glyburide administration (hour 7 to 8) did not differ significantly from baseline (hour 3 to 4) values (insulin: 53 +/- 9 pmol/L vs 52 +/- 9 pmol/L; C-peptide: 0.34 +/- 0.06 ng/mL vs 0.39 +/- 0.07 ng/mL). This low dose of glyburide resulted in a significantly greater decrease in HGP (16 +/- 2%; P < 0.001) than seen with fasting alone (8 +/- 4%; P < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7882817
To compare the efficacy and safety of controlled-release glipizide (glipizide-GITS [gastrointestinal therapeutic system]) and immediate-release glipizide in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7886271
Plasma lipids and VLDL and HDL composition were studied in a control group of 20 non diabetic subjects and in 31 male middle-age patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes treated by oral hypoglycemic agent glibenclamide and a weight maintaining diet. Data for the diabetics were separated based on haemoglobin A1c of less or greater than 7%. VLDL composition abnormalities were more frequent in the diabetic patients with HbA1c of > 7%. VLDL-cholesterol, VLDL-triglycerides and VLDL-phospholipids were high in all diabetics whereas VLDL-apo B increased only in diabetics with HbA1c > 7%. Apo CII and apo CIII levels and also apo CII/apo CIII ratio were also reduced in the diabetic patients with HbA1c levels of more than 7%. Increases in the apo E and apo E/apo C ratio were also seen in the more hyperglycemic diabetics with HbA1c levels > 7%. In contrast apo CII and apo CIII levels and also Apo CII/Apo CIII ratio remained unaltered in diabetic patients with less than 7% HbA1c levels. In these patients increases in the apo E levels were found while the apo E/apo C ratio remained unaltered. All diabetic patients showed increases in HDL-triglycerides and triglyceride/total cholesterol ratio with respect to control. Decreases in HDL-apo AI were also seen in both groups of diabetics, but the HDL-apo AI/HDL-apo AII ratio did not differ from control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7895460
The short-term (2-12 weeks) antihyperglycaemic efficacy of metformin (M), glibenclamide (G), and their primary combination (MG) was assessed in a double-blind study including 165 unselected patients with Type 2 diabetes. Patients with diet failure were randomized to M, G or MG. The dose was titrated with a fasting blood glucose concentration (FBG) of < 6.7 mmol l-1 as the target, using at most six dose levels, the first three comprising increasing monotherapy (M or G) or low-dose primary combination (MGL), and the second three add-on therapies (M/G and G/M) and primary combination therapy escalated to high dose (MGH). Success rates were higher on MGL than on monotherapy. The difference in achieving acceptable control (FBG < or = 7.8 mmol 1(-1)) was 70% versus 51% (95% confidence interval 3-36%, p = 0.032). When the drugs were combined, a slightly greater FBG reduction (p = 0.026) was observed, at lower dosage (p = 0.013). The response could not be predicted from body weight, but depended upon initial FBG (p = 0.019) and meal-stimulated C-peptide (p = 0.007). FBG declined progressively with increasing doses of metformin, whereas glibenclamide exerted most of its effect at low dose. Primary combination therapy with metformin and sulphonylurea may be clinically useful.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7895463
The objective of this study was to compare the effect of two sulphonylureas on the frequency of hypoglycaemic events and glycaemic control in elderly patients with Type 2 diabetes. Twenty-two untreated elderly patients were treated with glibenclamide or gliclazide in a randomized double-blind fashion. Prior to treatment, a biochemical profile, an oral glucose tolerance test, and a 2-h hyperglycaemic glucose clamp (glucose 5.4 mmol l-zs-1 above baseline) were performed. Patients were seen regularly over 6 months to assess glycaemic control and the frequency of hypoglycaemic reactions. Hyperglycaemic clamp studies and oral glucose tolerance tests were repeated at 1 and 6 months. The area under the curve for the oral glucose tolerance test (glibenclamide: 15.5 +/- 0.7; gliclazide: 14.9 +/- 0.8 mmol l-1 (p = NS)) and the haemoglobin A1C (glibenclamide: 7.4 +/- 0.2%; gliclazide: 7.9 +/- 0.5% (p = NS)) were similar at 6 months. Hypoglycaemic reactions were significantly more frequent with glibenclamide than with gliclazide: 17 vs 4 (p < 0.01). Insulin sensitivity index (ml kg-1 min-1 pmol-1 x 100) was increased significantly by glibenclamide but not gliclazide (glibenclamide: 0.284 +/- 0.116 (baseline) vs 0.518 +/- 0.102 (6 months) (p < 0.05), gliclazide: 0.260 +/- 0.048 (baseline) vs 0.358 +/- 0.048 (6 months) (p = NS)). We conclude that glycaemic control was equivalent with the two drugs but the incidence of hypoglycaemic reactions was significantly greater with glibenclamide probably because this drug increases insulin sensitivity to a greater degree.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7926425
In order to know the usefulness of a combined treatment with gliburide and NPH insulin 25 patients with well controlled type II diabetes mellitus were studied. The patients were randomly divided in to three groups: Group I just received gliburide, Group II only insulin and Group III gliburide and insulin. Glucose in fast, glycosylated haemoglobin and C peptide levels were determined over five months. For the statistical data processing variance analysis was performed. The initial and final glucose determinations were: Group I, 169.3 mg% and 139.0 mg% respectively (p > 0.05); Group II, 202.1 mg% and 177 mg% (p > 0.05); Group III, 157.8 mg% and 158.8 mg% (p > 0.1) for the glycosylated haemoglobin the determinations were: Group I, 7.2% and 5.1% (p > 0.05); Group II, 6.2% and 5.1% (p > 0.05) and Group III, 5.7% and 4.7% (p > 0.05). For the C peptide were 2.5 and 4.5 for Group I (p > 0.05), 2 and 4.1 for Group II (p > 0.05) and 3.2 and 5.3 for Group III (p > 0.05) with no significant statistical differences. It is concluded that the combined treatment showed to be effective, but not superior, in order to control diabetic patients and it can be a useful therapeutic alternative in well selected patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7942982
Suppression of nocturnal hepatic glucose production is key in the treatment of noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). In this article, the authors compare the effectiveness of dosing glyburide at bedtime versus in the morning on glycemic control in patients with NIDDM under suboptimal control. In a placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover trial, 32 patients with NIDDM with suboptimal control on chronic glyburide treatment fulfilling entry criteria were randomized to receive one of two regimens: (1) glyburide at bedtime and placebo in morning or (2) placebo at bedtime and glyburide in the morning. After 6 months of a regimen, patients crossed over to the other treatment and completed an additional 6-month period. After baseline assessment, fasting blood sugar, history, physical exam, and compliance assessments were performed monthly. HbA1c was measured bimonthly and Sustacal tolerance tests were performed at the end of each 6-month treatment period. During the initial 6-month comparison fasting, blood sugar concentration decreased 5% in bedtime ingesters and rose 10% in the morning patients. These changes were not statistically significant. HbA1c decreased significantly in the morning group but remained unchanged in the bedtime group. At the end of 12 months, nighttime dosing resulted in better home glucose monitoring values, fasting blood sugar results, and Sustacal tolerance profiles, but the differences were not statistically significant. No hypoglycemia was observed in the monitored data collected. Bedtime dosing of glyburide resulted in measurable improvement in fasting blood sugar and carbohydrate tolerance curves, but not to a degree justifying general recommendation of this technique in patients with NIDDM with secondary failure to oral agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7958542
Insulin and glucose responses to glibenclamide were studied in comparison to a novel non-sulphonylurea drug (AG) by means of the euglycaemic clamp technique. Nine fasting male subjects were connected to a Biostator and 1.75, 3.5 or 7.0 mg glibenclamide or 1.0, 2.0 or 4.0 mg AG were given and blood glucose concentrations were clamped at 10% below basal values. Glucose infusion rates were registered over 10 h after administration of the tablet. Maximal glucose infusion rates after glibenclamide were 40% higher compared to AG (1.75 vs 1.0 mg, 3.5 vs 2.0 mg, 7.0 vs 4.0 mg, respectively) and were reached after 3-3.5 h for all doses. After glibenclamide, area under the glucose infusion curves and maximal incremental serum insulin responses were higher by 25-40% and by 30% compared to AG when low, medium and high doses of each drug were tested. However, a linear dose relationship was obtained for both drugs when the glucose infusion rate was plotted against the area under the insulin curve. In fact, both drugs were equipotent on a molecular weight basis. The hypoglycaemic index of both drugs (integrated glucose infusion rate divided by integrated insulin release) expressed per mumol of drug revealed a dose-dependent and parallel inverse curvilinear relation to increasing doses. This methodological approach allowed us to quantify and compare the metabolic effects of oral hypoglycaemic agents under standardised experimental conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7960692
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7988301
To assess the hypoglycemic effect and the insulin-releasing effect of the main glyburide (glibenclamide) metabolites 4-trans-hydroxy-glibenclamide (M1) and 3-cis-hydroxy-glibenclamide (M2) in humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7988624
We have studied the absorption of glibenclamide 10 mg as a single morning dose in 7 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, comparing normoglycaemic and hyperglycaemic states. The maximal glibenclamide plasma concentrations were significantly higher in the normoglycaemic than in the hyperglycaemic state (448 vs 228 mg.l-1) and these peak concentrations were attained faster in normoglycaemia than in hyperglycaemia (3.7 vs 5 h). We conclude that the absorption of glibenclamide in the two states is different.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7988780
The primary goal of the present study was to examine the effects of improved glycaemic control associated with glipizide treatment on postprandial lipaemia in non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients. The metabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins of intestinal origin was assessed by measuring the retinyl palmitate content in plasma and the Svedberg flotation index (Sf) > 400 and Sf 20-400 lipoprotein fractions. Fasting plasma glucose concentrations (14.5 +/- 0.5 vs 9.0 +/- 0.5 mmol/l), glycated haemoglobin levels (13.1 +/- 0.6 vs. 9.7 +/- 0.6%), and daylong plasma glucose concentrations were all significantly lower after glipizide treatment (p < 0.001). The improvement in glycaemic control was associated with increases in insulin-mediated glucose uptake (p < 0.001) and plasma post-heparin lipoprotein and hepatic lipolytic activities (p < 0.02). Both fasting plasma triglyceride (3.09 +/- 0.51 vs 2.37 +/- 0.34 mmol/l), and postprandial triglyceride concentrations (p < 0.05-0.001) were lower following glipizide treatment, associated with a significant fall in retinyl palmitate content in all three lipoprotein fractions (p < 0.02-0.001), with the most substantial decrease seen in the Sf20-400 fraction. These data indicate that glipizide-induced improvement in glycaemic control was associated with changes in the metabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins of intestinal origin that would be anticipated to reduce risk of coronary heart disease in non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7991936
The metabolic clearance rate of insulin (MCRI) in 10 non-obese type 2 diabetic patients treated with either insulin alone or combined insulin plus sulfonylurea therapy is investigated. A classical 2-hour euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic glucose clamp using the artificial pancreas was performed in a randomized order after two 6-week periods of treatment: either with subcutaneous injections of insulin alone or with insulin plus oral administration of the sulfonylurea compound glipizide at the dose of 3 x 10 mg/day. The MCRI was calculated knowing the constant insulin infusion rate (0.1 U.kg-1.h-1) and measuring basal and steady-state plasma free insulin and C-peptide levels. When the test was performed at the end of the period of treatment with insulin plus glipizide and 30 min after the ingestion of the last dose of 10 mg glipizide, plasma C-peptide levels were significantly increased and steady-state free insulin levels tended to be slightly higher whereas the metabolic clearance rate of glucose was not affected. The MCRI was significantly reduced by glipizide from 23.3 +/- 2.9 to 18.9 +/- 2.0 ml.kg-1.min-1 p < 0.05. These results demonstrate that the sulfonylurea glipizide decreases the MCRI. This effect may play a role in the hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8003091
Using primary cultures of human smooth muscle intimal cells and mouse peritoneal macrophages it was demonstrated that oral hypoglycemic agents, sulfonylurea derivatives, at concentrations 10(-5)-10(-4) mol/l caused significant (by 25%-60%) intracellular total cholesterol accumulation. This in vitro atherogenic effect was confirmed in an ex vivo model. Sera from Type 2 diabetic patients, taken after sulfonylurea administration, acquired the ability to induce cholesterol accumulation in cultured cells. This enhanced atherogenic effect of patients' sera was observed for the next 2-4 h following the treatment and corresponded well to the pharmacokinetic characteristics of the tested drugs. The results suggest that sulfonylureas may exert a direct atherogenic action at the level of arterial cells, by increasing intracellular cholesterol content.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8015532
The efficacy and tolerability of acarbose was studied in 14 type-2-diabetic patients poorly controlled with diet and sulfonylureas. Acarbose was given in addition to sulfonylureas in a single-blind, placebo-controlled study for three times three months (acarbose-placebo-acarbose). At the beginning of the study and every three months body weight, HbA1c and biochemical and hematological safety parameters were measured. The patients controlled their mid morning urine glucose and two to four times daily their blood glucose concentration with a memory glucometer. Diabetic control improved significantly: HbA1c was 8.5 +/- 1.4% at the beginning, 6.5 +/- 1.1% after three months with acarbose (p < 0.001), 7.2 +/- 0.9% after three months placebo (p < 0.01) and 6.7 +/- 1.3% again after three months with acarbose (p < 0.05). Thus, the effect of acarbose alone accounts for 0.7 or 0.5% respectively, whereas the effect of teaching and diet in a special diabetes unit (the difference from the study to placebo) accounts for 1.3% of HbA1c. Home monitored blood and urine glucose values were improved: The postprandial blood glucose concentrations, the postprandial differences, the mean blood glucose concentrations and the glycosuria were decreased during acarbose treatment in comparison with placebo. The preprandial blood glucose concentrations before breakfast and supper were not influenced by acarbose. Hematological and biochemical safety parameters as well as blood pressure and heart rate were unchanged. Meteorism and flatulence as typical side effects decreased during treatment. Acarbose is a safe and effective adjunct treatment for type-2-diabetic patients uncontrolled with diet and sulfonylurea alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8021573
To study the effects on blood pressure and glucose homeostasis of felodipine, a calcium antagonist.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8025207
To determine if glipizide could enhance remission induction in new onset type 1 diabetes compared to intensive insulin treatment alone, 27 patients with type 1 diabetes were intensively treated in an open randomized trial with subcutaneous injections for one month. The insulin was randomly either discontinued (Group A) or the insulin discontinued and glipizide begun (Group B) Three patients in Group A (22%) and 7 in Group B (54%, p < .05) underwent insulin-free remissions for 10.3 +/- 4.4 and 8.7 +/- 2.6 months, respectively (p = NS). Mean blood glucose levels during insulin treatment were lower in patients entering remissions (94 +/- 3 mg/dl versus 102 +/- 5 mg/dl, p < 0.05). C-peptide levels were performed 0, 4, 8, and 24 weeks after insulin treatment. When all patients were examined, mean stimulated C-peptide levels at 4 weeks (0.58 +/- 0.09 pm/ml) were increased compared to time 0 (0.32 +/- 0.05 pm/ml, p < 0.02). Patients not entering remission had higher 4-week stimulated values (0.67 +/- 0.12 pm/ml) compared to time 0 values (0.29 +/- 0.06 pm/ml, p < .01), whereas remission patients' mean C-peptide levels remained similar at 0, 4, 8 and 24 weeks. These data indicate that a) insulin treatment plus glipizide induces higher rates of remission compared to intensive insulin treatment alone, b) the intensity of initial metabolic control may be an important determinant for remission induction, and c) endogenous insulin secretion is not associated with remission induction, suggesting that glipizide alters insulin sensitivity or is immunomodulatory in the context of new onset type 1 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8033529
This study was undertaken to clarify the effect of sulphonylurea therapy on beta cell function in 27 subjects with newly diagnosed Type 2 diabetes mellitus. Plasma glucose, insulin, intact and 32/33 split proinsulin were measured at diagnostic OGTT. After 8-12 weeks on a conventional diet, subjects with a fasting glucose > 9 mmol l-1 (n = 12) were commenced on sulphonylurea therapy. At diagnosis, the sulphonylurea requiring group were more hyperglycaemic (p < 0.0001), less obese (p < 0.05) and more insulin deficient with a lower 30 min insulin (p < 0.0002) than the diet group. Following dietary intervention in the sulphonylurea group, weight remained unchanged but there was a reduction in fasting glucose (p < 0.009). Fasting insulin, intact proinsulin, and 32/33 split proinsulin remained unchanged. After 12 weeks of sulphonylurea therapy there was a weight gain of 1.5 kg (p < 0.01), but a reduction in fasting glucose (p < 0.0001). Fasting insulin and intact proinsulin increased (p < 0.004) but 32/33 split proinsulin remained unchanged. There was a significant increase in both the fasting insulin to glucose ratio (p < 0.005), and intact to 32/33 split proinsulin ratio (p < 0.02). Final fasting glucose following sulphonylurea therapy was positively correlated with the initial intact and 32/33 split proinsulin and the fasting glucose following dietary treatment. It is clear from this work that sulphonylureas have a complex effect on beta cell physiology and as well as stimulating release of insulin they increase the release of intact proinsulin but not that of 32/33 split proinsulin, hence they increase the intact to 32/33 split proinsulin ratio.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8043894
To examine whether sulphonylureas influence hyperglycaemia-induced glucose disposal and suppression of hepatic glucose production (HGP) in type 2 diabetes mellitus, a 150-min hyperglycaemic (plasma glucose 14 mmol/l) clamp with concomitant somatostatin infusion was used in eight type 2 diabetic patients before and after 6 weeks of glipizide (GZ) therapy. During the clamp a small replacement dose of insulin was given (0.15 mU/kg per min). Isotopically determined glucose-induced glucose uptake was similar before and after GZ administration which led to improved glycaemic control (basal plasma glucose 12.2 +/- 1.3 vs 8.9 +/- 0.7 mmol/l; P < 0.01). Glucose-induced suppression of HGP was, however, more pronounced during GZ treatment (0.96 +/- 0.14 vs 1.44 +/- 0.20 mg/kg per min; P < 0.02). Following GZ treatment hyperglycaemia failed to stimulate glycogen synthase activity. Moreover, GZ resulted in a significant increase in the immunoreactive abundance of the insulin-regulatable glucose transport protein (GLUT 4) (P < 0.02). In conclusion, these results suggest that GZ therapy in type 2 diabetic patients enhances hepatic sensitivity to hyperglycaemia, while glucose-induced glucose uptake remains unaffected. In addition, GZ tends to normalize the activity of glycogen synthase and increases the content of GLUT 4 protein in skeletal muscle.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8044938
Brief episodes of ischemia render the heart more resistant to subsequent ischemia; this phenomenon has been called ischemic preconditioning. In some animal species, myocardial preconditioning appears to be due to activation of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels. The role played by KATP channels in preconditioning in humans remains unknown. The aim of this study was to establish whether glibenclamide, a selective KATP channel blocker, abolishes the ischemic preconditioning observed in humans during coronary angioplasty following repeated balloon inflations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8053971
The oral ethanol loading test (0.5 g/kg body mass given as 40% solution) was carried out in 5 groups, each of 10 out-patients with non-insulin-dependent (type 2) diabetes before and after 10 days of treatment with one of the following sulphonylurea derivatives: tolbutamide (CAS 64-77-7) 0.5 t.i.d., chlorpropamide (CAS 94-20-2) 0.5 once daily morning, glibornuride (CAS 26944-48-9) 0.025 t.i.d., glibenclamide (CAS 10238-21-8) 0.005 t.i.d. and glipizide (CAS 29094-61-9) 0.005 t.i.d. The response to alcohol (facial flush, heart rate, blood pressure) were compared, and blood concentrations of ethanol, acetaldehyde, pyruvate, lactate, hydrocarbonates as well as blood pH, pO2 and pCO2 were determined in fasting state and during 6 hours after alcohol ingestion. In all patients the family history of diabetes and the presence and degree of vascular complications were registered. Evident flushing phenomenon was observed in 6 patients treated with chlorpropamide, in 3 treated with tolbutamide, in 2 treated with glibenclamide, in one receiving glibornuride and in none treated with glipizide. All drugs caused a greater rise of blood ethanol and acetaldehyde levels in relation to the control tests, but the difference reached statistical significance only in the group receiving chlorpropamide. Moreover, patients (pooled) with positive thermographic response had also significantly higher blood levels of ethanol and acetaldehyde during the second test. The ratio of acetaldehyde to ethanol concentration in blood (mumol:mmol) was not significantly changed in any group indicating parallel impairment of both steps of ethanol metabolism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8056129
In a randomized double-blind cross-over study the addition of metformin to chronic glibenclamide treatment was assessed conventionally (plasma glucose profile and HbA1c measurement) and with an euglycaemic-hyperinsulinaemic glucose clamp in ten non obese (body mass index 22.3 +/- 0.5 (+/- SE)kg.m-2) Type 2 diabetic patients with poor metabolic control. Metformin (500 mg twice a day) or placebo were added in randomized sequence for 6 weeks to their usual sulphonylurea treatment (glibenclamide 5 mg three times a day, before meals). On the last day of each administration period, an euglycaemic (glucose 5.5 +/- 0.5 mmol.l-1), hyperinsulinaemic (insulin 698.1 +/- 22.9 pmol.l-1) clamp was performed, together with a study of insulin binding to circulating monocytes. Metformin reduced fasting glucose levels (6.1 +/- 0.4 vs 6.4 +/- 0.4 mmol.l-1, P = 0.036), mean daily plasma glucose concentrations (9.2 +/- 0.4 mmol.l-1, P < 0.001), and HbA1c (8.7 +/- 0.3 vs 9.3 +/- 0.2%; P = 0.027). No variations were registered in fasting plasma insulin or body weight. A significant reduction of basal hepatic glucose production (12.8 +/- 2.7 vs 33.9 +/- 4.5 mumol.kg-1 min-1, P < 0.001), together with an increase in glucose utilization during the clamp (33.4 +/- 2.8 vs 25.9 +/- 1.1 mumol.kg-1.min-1, P = 0.033), was found after metformin, whereas residual glucose production during insulin infusion did not change. Insulin binding to circulating monocytes was higher after metformin (4.8 +/- 0.9 vs 3.2 +/- 0.6%, P = 0.020), while the lipaemic profile showed a reduction in triglycerides (1.2 +/- 0.1 vs 1.7 +/- 0.3 mmol.l-1, P = 0.039) and an increase in HDL-cholesterol (1.3 +/- 0.1 vs 1.0 +/- 0.1 mmol.l-1, P = 0.004) without variations in total cholesterol. These findings offer further evidence that metabolic control is improved after biguanide addition to sulphonylurea treatment, and support the hypothesis that biguanides improve insulin sensitivity both at the hepatic and peripheral (muscular) levels, as well as triglyceride metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8077888
To study the effect of insulin and sulfonylurea (SU) therapy on glycaemic control, insulin resistance and cardiovascular risk factors in type 2 diabetic subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8082525
To compare the different therapeutic principles of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors and sulphonylureas as first-line treatment in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients with dietary failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8111800
This study sought to compare the efficacy and safety of glyburide and glipizide in elderly patients with well-controlled non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). One hundred forty-five patients aged > or = 65 years with NIDDM that was controlled for at least 3 months with oral sulfonylurea therapy were enrolled. After a washout phase, 139 patients were randomized to receive glyburide, 1.25 or 2.5 mg/day, or glipizide, 2.5 or 5 mg/day. During a 4- to 8-week titration phase, doses were adjusted according to prescribing guidelines. Patients who achieved glycemic control (fasting plasma glucose of < or = 8.9 mmol/L, or 160 mg/dl, on two consecutive occasions) entered a maintenance phase, for a total treatment period of 4 months. Hypoglycemia was defined as a fasting plasma glucose of < 3.3 mmol/L (60 mg/dl) or a random plasma glucose of < 2.8 mmol/L (50 mg/dl), with associated signs and symptoms. Most patients in both the glyburide and glipizide groups achieved satisfactory glycemic control; there were no significant differences between groups in fasting plasma glucose or hemoglobin A1c levels at any time. Of note, the mean dose of glyburide (8.5 mg/day) was approximately half that of glipizide (15.4 mg/day) at the end of the maintenance period (P = 0.009). Both regimens were well tolerated and were associated with a similarly low incidence of hypoglycemia. It was concluded that both glyburide and glipizide are suitable for the treatment of NIDDM in properly selected elderly patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8111803
A postmarketing study involving 114 office practices provides the largest body of clinical experience to date in Canada with the second-generation sulfonylurea gliclazide in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). This study focused on efficacy and safety in 411 NIDDM patients. Subjects included patients whose disease was not controlled by diet alone or by diet plus an antidiabetic drug. The dose of gliclazide was 80 mg/day to 320 mg/day. Patients were treated for 3 months, with monthly evaluations. Fasting and 2-hour blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin levels were measured before and after the study period, with all values showing a significant decrease (P = 0.01). Total cholesterol and triglyceride levels also decreased significantly during the study (P = 0.05). Adverse effects were recorded in 30 (7.3%) of patients and led to the withdrawal of 1.2% from the study. Hypoglycemia symptoms were less frequently encountered with gliclazide than with previous treatments (P = 0.001). Gliclazide was found to be safe and well tolerated in the majority of patients. The results of this study appear to confirm the established efficacy of gliclazide in treating NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8112185
To examine the effects of the carbohydrase inhibitor miglitol (BAY m 1099) on the metabolic profiles of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients suboptimally controlled on maximal daily doses of sulfonylurea (SFU) agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8112483
Eight non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients, in whom oral hypoglycaemic agents were not effective, were treated with an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, AO-128 (0.9 mg/day) for 6 months. After 6 months of treatment there was a statistically significant decrease in the blood glucose level 1 and 2 h postprandially. The 2 h blood glucose level was also significantly reduced after 2 months' treatment. The insulin and HbA1c levels after 2 and 6 months' treatment were lower than those before administration. Faecal weight, the frequency of bowel movements, the ratio of hydroxy fatty acids to total fatty acids, and faecal short-chain carboxylic acid content were all increased significantly during treatment. The initially hard stools became normal or soft, although no actual diarrhoea developed. Both faecal bile-acid excretion and the ratio of primary bile acids to total bile acids were increased significantly after 2 months, but they showed some recovery towards the pretreatment levels after 6 months' treatment. There was no distinct change in neutral sterol and fatty acid excretion. Breath hydrogen excretion showed a slight increase after treatment. These results suggest that intestinal fermentation was promoted and the intestinal transit time was shortened by AO-128 administration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8200602
Oral antidiabetic agents continue to play an important role in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Of decisive importance is the timing of their use, together with a knowledge of their specific properties. Acarbose, which needs to be initiated at a low, slowly increasing dose, is noted for the fact that it has virtually no systemic side effects. Metformin reduces plasma glucose levels without inducing hyperinsulinemia, and carries virtually no risk of lactic acidosis. Glibenclamide can be used either alone to treat type 2 diabetes or in combination with other oral antidiabetics or insulin. Today, intensified insulin therapy represents the optimal standard of insulin replacement. It permits meal-oriented injection of normal insulin and the use of longer-acting insulin overnight. This form of treatment is now facilitated by the possibilities of plasma glucose selfmonitoring and the use of injection aids (pen). Intensified treatment should be initiated at the time type I diabetes is diagnosed. In the case of a particularly instable metabolic situation or neuropathy, it may become necessary to use insulin pumps.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8260118
Although it is 50 years since the discovery of the hypoglycaemic effects of sulphonylureas, the molecular basis of their effects are still not fully understood. It has been suggested that long term sulphonylurea therapy may desensitise the pancreatic beta-cells to further drug effects, and that intermittent sulphonylurea therapy may be the best approach to maintain their effectiveness. A randomised, double-blind study has been carried out to attempt to answer the question of whether intermittent sulphonylurea therapy is more effective then continuous administration. Responders to oral glibenclamide (glyburide) went on to receive continuous or intermittent treatment (glibenclamide for 2 weeks then placebo for 2 weeks) for 16 weeks. Glycaemic control was maintained in the continuous treatment group. However, glucose levels deteriorated in the intermittent treatment group, suggesting that there is no merit to intermittent sulphonylurea treatment. Other strategies to investigate include administration on an alternate-day basis or a shorter period off the drug (e.g. 1 week). The underlying question of optimal glycaemic control with sulphonylureas warrants a definitive answer.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8269445
The subjects were 206 patients (123 men, 83 women) with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, aged 33 to 80 years. For at least 4 weeks prior to the study each subject had been taking 5-mg tablets of original, nonmicronized glyburide (Micronase tablets) in doses of 5, 10, 15, or 20 mg daily. In a double-blind 12-week study, the subjects were randomly assigned to continue receiving 5-mg tablets of original glyburide or to substitute 3-mg tablets of reformulated, micronized glyburide (Glynase PresTab tablets) for the original tablets. Glyburide tablets had been reformulated to improve their bioavailability. Baseline mean fasting serum glucose levels in the groups taking reformulated and original glyburide were 169.3 and 168.3 mg/dl, respectively; at study end point, their respective serum glucose levels were 186.0 and 177.0 mg/dl. The differences between groups were not significant; in both groups, however, end point glucose levels were significantly higher than baseline levels. Baseline hemoglobin A1C levels in the groups taking reformulated and original glyburide were both 7.6%; at study end point, hemoglobin A1C levels had improved slightly in each group to 7.4% and 7.5%, respectively. The differences between and within groups at end point were not significant. No between-group differences at baseline or at end point were found in mean levels of postprandial serum glucose, fasting C-peptide, or postprandial C-peptide. Medical events experienced by the subjects in the two groups were similar in nature and number. Changes in other laboratory test results, vital signs, and weight were not clinically meaningful.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8313208
Eighteen patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), who were newly diagnosed or had their oral hypoglycemic agents discontinued for more than 3 months, were studied to evaluate the effect of gliclazide on glycemic control, plasma lipids and beta cell function. The mean fasting plasma glucose (249 +/- 11 vs 170 +/- 10 mg/dl, p < 0.001), postprandial plasma glucose (353 +/- 16 vs 237 +/- 16 mg/dl, p < 0.001) and HbA1C (9.6 +/- 0.4 vs 6.5 +/- 0.3% p < 0.001) decreased significantly after 3-months of gliclazide treatment. The beta cell function showed a significant increase in fasting serum C-peptide (1.8 +/- 0.2 vs 2.1 +/- 0.3 ng/ml, p < 0.05) and an insignificant increment in serum C-peptide after glucagon stimulation (2.2 +/- 0.3 vs 2.2 +/- 0.4 ng/ml, p < 0.1). In 8 cases with an initial serum cholesterol above 200 mg/dl, the serum cholesterol decreased significantly (236 +/- 8 vs 200 +/- 12 mg/dl, p < 0.05). However, LDL-cholesterol (164 +/- 8 vs 145 +/- 13 mg, p > 0.05) and HDL-cholesterol (66 +/- 5 vs 54 +/- 9 mg, p > 0.05) showed insignificant decrease after gliclazide therapy. In 4 patients with hypertriglyceridemia, the serum triglyceride decreased (441 +/- 161 vs 239 +/- 73 mg/dl, p > 0.1), but this was not statistically significant. These findings suggest that hyperglycemia, fasting serum C-peptide levels and hypercholesteremia are significantly improved after a 3-month period of gliclazide therapy in NIDDM patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8521759
It is expected that the number of patients with diabetes mellitus will increase in the near future. The high rate of microvascular and macrovascular complications developing in these patients will place an even higher burden on our healthcare systems. Several pathophysiological factors are involved in the development of complications, among which are hyperglycaemia per se, the consequent formation of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) and the intracellular accumulation of sorbitol. In addition, hypertension and dyslipidaemia also play an important role, especially in the development of coronary heart disease and stroke. The major therapeutic goals in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) are to reduce obesity and normalise lipid disturbances and increased blood pressure, in order to improve the well-being of the patient and reduce the risk of the development of late diabetic complications. Often, pharmacological treatment of the hyperglycaemia is necessary, in which case sulphonylureas, metformin, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors such as acarbose, or insulin may be employed. It is believed that medical interventions, by their effect on improving metabolic control, reduce the incidence and severity of diabetic complications, especially when considering the toxic effects of glucose and the accumulation of AGEs as a consequence of raised tissue glucose levels. This concept is also based on extrapolation of the finding of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial that intensive glycaemic control in IDDM will prevent the progression of at least the microvascular complications like retinopathy and nephropathy. There are, however, no long term studies in NIDDM patients to show that treatment with oral antihyperglycaemic agents helps to postpone or prevent complications. It is expected that the UK Prospective Diabetes Study will show whether better metabolic control, either with oral antihyperglycaemics or with insulin, will indeed improve outcome. Several other studies aiming at specific risk factor intervention (hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, lipid oxidation) in NIDDM patients are currently ongoing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8529760
The purpose of this study was to determine the most suitable treatment for Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetic patients with secondary failure to sulfonylureas (SFS). In a four-month comparative study, 36 Type 2 diabetic patients given SFS were allocated to three treatment groups: A (n = 12, M/F 6/6, HbAlc 9.1 +/- 1.6%) received 0.3 IU/Kg body weight (BW) of insulin-Zn between 10 and 11 p.m.; B (n = 12, M/F 6/6, HbAlc 9.2 +/- 1.6%) SFS plus 850 mg/day of metformin; and C (n = 12, M/F 6/6, HbAlc 9.5 +/- 2.4%) SFS plus acarbose 3 x 100 mg daily. Modifications in HbAlc, BW, blood pressure (BP), lipoprotein profile and insulin sensitivity were evaluated. HbAlc decreased in the three groups (A: 17.9 +/- 13.5%; B: 18.2 +/- 4.5%; C: 7.6 +/- 16.8%; all p < 0.05; A and B vs C = p < 0.05). BW increased in group A and decreased in the other groups. BP decreased statistically in group B. HDL-cholesterol increased (1.26 +/- 0.46 vs 1.49 +/- 0.36 mmol/L; p < 0.05) and triglyceride levels decreased (1.68 +/- 0.85 vs 1.16 +/- 0.43 mmol/L; p < 0.05) in group A. There were no significant changes in the other studied parameters. We conclude that, for Type 2 diabetic patients given SFS, both insulin and metformin plus SFS provided better glycaemic control than acarbose plus SFS. Metformin combined with SFS offered further advantages for the control of BW and BP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8554206
To report the progress (after 9-year follow-up) of a study designed to determine whether improved glucose control in patients with newly diagnosed non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) is effective in reducing the incidence of clinical complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8556690
This article draws attention to some of the unique aspects of diabetes mellitus in the elderly and outlines the principles of management of diabetes in this age group with emphasis on diet therapy. The implications of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial for the elderly person with diabetes is also briefly discussed. The new nutrition recommendations of the American Diabetes Association are summarized, and the evolving enhanced role of the dietitian in the management of diabetes is highlighted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8568117
Our study investigated the metabolic benefits deriving from chronic pharmacological vitamin C administration in aged non-insulin dependent (Type II) diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8590785
Gastric inhibitory polypeptide (tGIP) and truncated glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) are potent gastrointestinal insulinotropic factors (incretin), are most released after a meal or ingestion of glucose in man and animals. To investigate whether sulfonylurea (SU) affects the secretion of incretin, the modulation of plasma GIP and tGLP-1 levels following glucose ingestion in non-insulin-dependent diabetic type 2 patients with or without SU therapy was studied. A 75-G oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was carried out on 9 healthy subjects (controls) and 18 patients with non-obese type 2, 9 of whom were treated by diet alone (NIDDM-diet) and the other 9 with SU (glibenclamide 2.5 mg or gliclazide 40 mg) once a day (NIDDM-SU). Plasma GIP was measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) with R65 antibody, and GLP-1 was measured by RIA with N-terminal-directed antiserum R1043 (GLP-1NT) and C-terminal-directed antiserum R2337 (GLP-1CT). Following OGTT, plasma glucose, GIP, GLP-1NT, and GLP-1CT in type 2 patients increased more markedly than in controls, despite the lower response of insulin. However, there were no significant differences in plasma levels of these peptides between the NIDDM-diet and NIDDM-SU groups. Therefore, it is unlikely that SU is involved in the high response of GIP and GLP-1s to OGTT in type 2 patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8593925
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a traditional Chinese treatment (TCT) based on three plants in association with a sulfonylurea, glibenclamide (2.5 mg X 3/d). A 2 X 2 factorial design was adopted for this multicentre randomized double-blind trial involving 4 groups [A = placebo (P) TCT + P glibenclamide; B = P TCT + verum glibenclamide; C = verum TCT + P glibenclamide; D = verum TCT + verum glibenclamide]. Patients included were type 2 diabetic outpatients, 40-70 years of age, treated by diet alone or oral anti-diabetic drugs. Endpoint criteria evaluated were HbA1, blood glucose and plasma insulin (at fasting, and 1 and 2 h after a test meal). At each visit, a clinical examination was performed, and a questionnaire on side effects and associated symptoms was completed. The dose was reduced by half in the case of hypoglycaemia. The 216 patients were recruited in 5 centres [Shanghai (1) = 48, Shanghai (2) = 40, Beijing = 40, Canton = 42, Chengdu = 46 and randomized into treatment groups A, B, C, D (56, 56, 50 and 54 respectively). Eleven patients were withdrawn for administrative reasons. In patients treated with glibenclamide, a significant increase in weight and insulinaemia was observed, together with a significant decrease in blood glucose values; in those receiving TCT, blood glucose values were significantly decreased only 2 h after the test meal. A synergistic effect on blood glucose was observed when both treatments were given. Hypoglycaemia occurred in 19 patients (all in the two verum glibenclamide groups). This first multicentre controlled trial showed that the 3 Chinese plants tested were well-tolerated and effective in Type 2 diabetes as indicated by a significant synergistic effect in association with a sulfonylurea.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8596760
The purpose of the present work was to assess the relationship of leukocyte and erythrocyte superoxide dismutase activity to its cofactors concentrations i.e. zinc and copper in plasma and erythrocyte in diabetic patients and treatment variability. 104 patients were included in the study. 23 persons were in the control group. All patients were divided into 2 groups (NIDDM and IDDM). Patients with NIDDM were divided into 3 subgroups depending on treatment (insulin, gliclazide, dietary treated). In all groups, there were assessed following parameters: the leucocyte and erythrocyte SOD activity according to the method of Misra and Fridovich, and zinc and copper concentrations in plasma and erythrocyte, which were measured by flame absorption spectrophotometry. Statistical analysis was performed using the CRISP program.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8642720
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8656173
Metformin is a biguanide that can used alone or in combination with sulfonylureas or insulin in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Since biguanides do not increase pancreatic insulin secretion, they are referred to as antihyperglycemic agents, as opposed to hypoglycemic agents. Biguanides reduce hyperglycemia by increasing, insulin sensitivity, decreasing glucose absorption, and inhibiting hepatic gluconeogenesis. Advantages of metformin include achieving glycemic control without exacerbating weight gain or hyperinsulinemia and beneficially affecting serum cholesterol concentrations. Although metformin has the potential to cause lactic acidosis, the incidence is significantly lower compared with phenformin. Risk factors for lactic acidosis include renal serum creatinine > 1.5 mg/dL and cardiovascular, pulmonary, and hepatic disease. Metformin should be temporarily discontinued prior to surgery and before administration of radiologic intravenous contrast, and in patients with sepsis, severe gastrointestinal disease, trauma, and acute cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8684103
To evaluate prospectively the clinical value of measuring serum concentrations of 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5AG) in monitoring glycaemia in patients with newly diagnosed non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), we measured serum 1,5AG in 56 such patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8684512
A 58-year-old man with chronic paranoid-hallucinatoric psychosis had transient episodes with marked paranoid delusions, auditory hallucinations without confusion, shakiness of both upper extremities, tachycardia and sweating. EMG performed with surface electrodes revealed many silent periods in postural active muscles with maximum duration of 120 ms; blood glucose was 65-75 mg/dl. At other times, blood glucose was 135-140 mg/dl, EMG revealed few silent periods in postural active muscles with maximal duration of 50 ms and the patient noted some vibration in his outstretched hands only. Drug-induced asterixis (clozapine, benperidol) amplified by relative hypoglycemia was therefore assumed, and symptoms disappeared after oral antidiabetics were reduced.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8690177
We have previously shown that the mRNA expression of muscle glycogen synthase is decreased in non-insulin-dependent diabetic (NIDDM) patients; the objective of the present protocol was to examine whether the gene expression of muscle glycogen synthase in NIDDM is affected by chronic sulphonylurea treatment. Ten obese patients with NIDDM were studied before and after 8 weeks of treatment with a weight-maintaining diet in combination with the sulphonylurea gliclazide. Gliclazide treatment was associated with significant reductions in HbA1C (p=0.001) and fasting plasma glucose (p=0.005) as well as enhanced beta-cell responses to an oral glucose load. During euglycaemic, hyperinsulinaemic clamp (2 mU x kg-1 x min-1) in combination with indirect calorimetry, a 35% (p=0.005) increase in whole-body insulin-stimulated glucose disposal rate, predominantly due to an increased non-oxidative glucose metabolism (p=0.02) was demonstrated in teh gliclazide-treated patients when compared to pre-treatment values. In biopsies obtained from vastus lateralis muscle during insulin infusion, the half-maximal activation of glycogen synthase was achieved at a significantly lower concentration of the allosteric activator glucose 6-phosphate (p=0.01). However, despite significant increases in both insulin-stimulated non-oxidative glucose metabolism and muscle glycogen synthase activation in gliclazide-treated patients no changes were found in levels of glycogen synthase mRNA or immunoreactive protein in muscle. In conclusion, improved blood glucose control in gliclazide-treated obese NIDDM patients has no impact on the gene expression of muscle glycogen synthase.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8690621
In this retrospective study, the authors assess the efficacy of combined insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents (OHAs) in controlling glycemic levels, as well as lipid levels and insulin requirements, in 48 patients with type II diabetes mellitus during a 1-year period. Thirty-two of these patients had secondary failure to an OHA (group 1). Sixteen patients (group 2) were taking high doses of insulin alone. Overall, 64.6% of all the patients responded to the combination therapy and insulin at 6 months. Response was defined as a decrease in hemoglobin A1c of more than 0.5%. At 12 months, 50% of these patients continued to respond to this regimen. No significant differences were seen in the patients' total cholesterol and triglyceride levels between responders and nonresponders in each group. After 1 year of combination OHA and insulin therapy, 50% of the patients showed a 21.4% reduction in their daily insulin dose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8718436
To investigate the clinical efficacy of troglitazone, a newly developed oral hypoglycemic agent, in patients with NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8726592
Metformin is an oral antihyperglycemic agent that is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. It differs from the sulfonylureas in that it is does not enhance insulin secretion and normally does not produce hypoglycemia. Metformin acts to decrease preprandial and postprandial blood glucose concentrations by increasing skeletal muscle uptake of glucose, decreasing gluconeogenesis, and decreasing absorption of glucose. The addition of metformin to maximum dosages of a sulfonylurea may synergistically improve glucose control. The drug may offer other potential benefits, such as weight loss or minimal weight gain, improved blood flow in patients with peripheral vascular disease, reduction of tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor, and improved lipid profiles. It is relatively safe if taken appropriately. Its most common side effects are gastrointestinal (nausea, diarrhea, anorexia), metallic taste, and vitamin B12 malabsorption. Lactic acidosis may also occur, but it is rare if metformin is avoided in patients with contraindications to its use. With careful monitoring, the agent may be considered for the initial treatment of obese patients who fail dietary measures, and those whose disease is refractory to maximum dosages of sulfonylureas or who do not tolerate them.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8732716
To compare the effects of a nigh-carbohydrate diet on blood glucose and plasma lipids in NIDDM patients with either mild or severe glucose intolerance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8737030
The aim of this study was to compare the metabolic effects of a combination of daytime glibenclamide and evening NPH insulin with intensive insulin treatment (rapid acting insulin before meals and NPH insulin at bedtime) in patients exhibiting secondary failure to sulphonylurea treatment. Thirty-nine mildly obese NIDDM patients (BMI 25.6 +/- 0.5) were randomized after 6 weeks of intensive insulin treatment to either a combination treatment (CT, n = 20) or continued intensive insulin treatment (IT, n = 19). There were no differences between the two groups in age, diabetes duration, BMI, HbA1c, or basal and glucagon stimulated C-peptide. The patients were followed for 1 year and the findings were analysed on an intent to treat basis. Two patients in the CT group were excluded after 2 and 6 months, respectively, due to unacceptably high postprandial glucose values. There was a significant difference in HbA1c between the CT and IT groups at 6 months (8.2 +/- 0.2, n = 19, vs 6.8 +/- 0.4%, n = 19, p < 0.001)), but not at 12 months (7.8 +/- 0.3, n = 18, vs 7.5 +/- 0.4%, n = 19). After the initial intensive insulin treatment, BMI was constant in the CT group but increased significantly at 6 and 12 months in the IT group. We conclude that both treatments are associated with a marked and long-term improvement of glycaemic control. The intensive insulin treatment leads to a more pronounced weight increase which in the long run might have negative effect on overall metabolic control. Therefore, the combination treatment together with intensified education and dietary advice should be regarded as the initial treatment of choice for oral agent failure in moderately obese NIDDM patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8739909
Non-insulin-dependent diabetic (NIDDM) patients show a high incidence of cardiovascular disease, with greater risk of recurrent myocardial infarction and a less favourable clinical outcome than non-diabetic patients. The majority of NIDDM patients are treated with sulphonylurea (SU) derivatives. In the 1970's the University Group Diabetes Program concluded that tolbutamide treatment caused increased cardiovascular mortality; the study, which led to curtailment of oral antidiabetic treatment in the USA, was received with scepticism in Europe. Later criticism of its methodology reduced the impact of the study; however, the question of the safety of SU in NIDDM patients with cardiovascular disease has been re-opened in the face of new experimental data. The heart and vascular tissues do have prerequisites for SU action, i.e. SU receptors and ATP-dependent K+ (K+ATP) channels. These channels play an important role in the protection of the myocardium against ischaemia-reperfusion damage, and their closure by SU could lead to amplified ischaemic damage. Here we review evidence from animal and human studies for deleterious SU effects on ischaemia-induced myocardial damage, either by direct action or through diminished cardioprotective preconditioning. Closure of K+ATP channels by SU can lead to reduction of post-infarct arrhythmias; the drug has also been claimed to improve various atherosclerosis risk factors. The evidence for these beneficial effects of SU is also reviewed. We look at the major difficulties that hamper transfer of information from experimental studies to clinical decision-making: a) The affinity of SU for heart K+ATP channels is orders of magnitude lower than for beta-cell channels; is it reasonable to expect in vivo cardiac effects with therapeutic 'pancreatic' SU doses? b) Most studies utilized high doses of acutely administered SU; are effects similar in the chronic steady-state of the SU-treated diabetic patient? c) Convincing SU effects have been demonstrated in acutely induced ischaemia by acutely administering the drug; do such effects persist in the clinical situation of gradually progressive ischaemia? d) Ischaemia and modification of K+ATP channel activity induce complex events, some with opposing effects; what is the net result of SU action, and do different SU derivatives lead to different outcomes? e) In the chronic (and hence clinically relevant) situation, how can direct (deleterious or beneficial) SU effects be separated from beneficial effects mediated by the metabolic action of the drug? Only large prospective clinical studies, making use of advanced technology for assessment of cardiovascular function, can answer these questions. Millions of NIDDM patients are treated with SU derivatives; many are in the age group where cardiovascular risks are extremely high. The question of whether SU derivatives are beneficial or deleterious for these patients must finally be settle unequivocally.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8742566
To evaluate the effects of captopril on circulating catecholamine levels in NIDDM patients and the possible relationship between captopril-related changes in circulating catecholamine levels and insulin sensitivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8742572
To compare the effects of acarbose or metformin treatment used as an adjunct with a sulfonylurea agent in the treatment of NIDDM not adequately controlled with the use of a sulfonylurea agent alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8742586
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750768
To examine whether sulfonylureas inhibit the metabolic clearance rate (MCR) of insulin, 19 healthy young subjects participated in two experiments. In the first protocol (n = 10), a 3-h oral glucose load was performed with and without 2 mg of glipizide given 30 min before glucose ingestion. The total insulin response was 60% greater with than without glipizide (5.9 +/- 0.6 vs 3.7 +/- 0.5 microU/ml; P < 0.001). However, the total C-peptide responses were virtually identical (4.7 +/- 0.5 vs 4.8 +/- 0.4 nmol/l) in both studies. In the second protocol (n = 9), the MCR of insulin was measured during 4-h euglycemic insulin clamps performed with and without glipizide. In the study with glipizide, the subjects ingested 5 mg of glipizide at 120 min. The steady-state plasma insulin concentration during the 4th h, i.e., 1-2 h after glipizide ingestion, was significantly higher than during the 2nd h, i.e., before glipizide ingestion (99 +/- 22 vs 78 +/- 17 microU/ml; P < 0.01). In addition, glucose uptake during the 4th h was greater (8.0 +/- 1.6 vs 6.4 +/- 1.5 mg/kg.min) and the MCR of insulin was reduced (503 +/- 126 vs 621 +/- 176 ml/m2.min; P < 0.01). We conclude that glipizide augments plasma insulin levels both by enhancing its secretion and by decreasing the MCR of insulin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8767351
Sulfonylureas predispose to hypoglycaemia during and after exercise. The hypoglycaemic effect of the novel sulfonylurea glimepiride (G; CAS 93479-97-1) in male healthy volunteers under these conditions. Each subject was exposed to three experimental situations, administration of 3 mg G and rest, administration of 3 mg G and 60 min of bicycle ergometry (E) (work load adjusted to a heart rate of 120 bpm), or placebo (P) and bicycle ergometry as mentioned. Each of these was preceded and followed by 60 min of physical rest. Base line glycaemia was comparable (PE 83 +/- 8 mg/dl, GR 84 +/- 5 mg/dl, GE 86 +/- 7 mg/dl) and fell during GR to 63 +/- 6 mg/dl after 150 min. During GE glycaemia ceased to decline after 30 min exercise, and rose thereafter reaching values comparable to PE after 150 min (80 +/- 8 vs. 82 +/- 7 mg/dl). Serum insulin concentrations rose during exercise following administration of G to 6-7 microU/ml (AUC during the period 60-120 min after administration: GE 371 +/- 81 microU/ml.60 min, GR 414 +/- 77 microU/ml.60 min), and fell during PE to 4 microU/ml (265 +/- 49 microU/ml.60; p < 0.001 vs. GE and GR). During GE serum insulin concentrations fell to 6 microU/ml at the end of exercise and thereafter (AUC during the period 120-180 min after administration: 340 +/- 82 microU/ml.60 min), whereas they remained at 7 microU/ml during GR (399 +/- 109 microU/ml.60 min; p = 0.087 vs. GE). In conclusion, exercise blunts the hypoglycaemic effect of glimepiride in healthy individuals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8773160
To determine the effects of aspirin and ibuprofen on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of glyburide in healthy volunteers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8799649
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8842603
To assess the efficacy, safety, and dose-response relationship of glimepiride in patients with NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8842604
To investigate the acute effects of glibenclamide and glucagon-like peptide I (GLP-I) and their combination in perfused isolated rat pancreas and in patients with secondary failure to sulfonylureas.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8842609
To determine whether the abnormal glucagon and amylin secretions in NIDDM are secondary to hyperglycemia and relative hypoinsulinemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8846678
Combination therapy with insulin and sulphonylurea has gained acceptance in management of subjects with Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. However, its role in management of Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus remains controversial. In this study, the effect of combination therapy with insulin and glibenclamide on metabolic control, daily insulin dosage, and insulin sensitivity was assessed in subjects with Type 1 diabetes mellitus. Ten men with Type 1 diabetes mellitus participated in a randomized, double-blind, crossover, clinical trial with three treatment regimens, namely (1) insulin alone, (2) insulin and placebo, (3) insulin and glibenclamide, each lasting 3 months. Combination therapy induced: (1) reduction in daily insulin dosage; (2) more uniform blood glucose control as reflected by a lower average 24 h blood glucose level, a smaller difference between mean preprandial and 2 h postprandial blood glucose concentrations, decreased 24 h urine glucose excretion, and a decline in number of hypoglycaemic events; (3) improved insulin sensitivity as expressed by more rapid plasma glucose disappearance rate, without a significant alteration in fasting plasma glucagon and 1h postprandial serum C-peptide levels; when compared with treatment with either insulin alone or with insulin and placebo. Therefore, it is apparent that the addition of glibenclamide to insulin reduces daily insulin dosage and renders a greater uniformity to diurnal blood glucose control, most probably secondary to enhancement of insulin sensitivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8848822
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of glipizide were evaluated in 20 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). The group consisted of 12 obese subjects (seven women, five men; mean +/- SD age, 53.5 +/- 8.5 years; total body weight (TBW), 95.5 +/- 17.2 kg; percentage > IBW (ideal body weight), 57.8 +/- 31.7%); and eight nonobese subjects (two women, six men; age, 57.8 +/- 11.7 years; TBW, 80.8 +/- 9.9 kg; percentage > IBW, 15.6 +/- 10.3%). After a 2-week antidiabetic drug-free period, patients were started on glipizide therapy for 12 weeks. Glipizide dosages were titrated to achieve specified therapeutic goals or a maximum daily dose of 40 mg. Glipizide pharmacokinetics were assessed by serum concentrations obtained during a 24-h pharmacokinetic evaluation performed after the first 5-mg dose (SD) and after 12 weeks of chronic therapy (CD). Glipizide pharmacodynamics were evaluated with serum glucose, insulin, and C-peptide responses to Sustacal tolerance test done at baseline, after SD, and after CD. No statistically significant differences in the SD pharmacokinetic parameters (Tmax = 3.1 +/- 1.2 vs. 2.8 +/- 1.6 h; Cmax = 332.5 +/- 92.5 vs. 420.8 +/- 142 g/L; area under the curve extrapolated to infinity (AUCI) = 2,598.3 +/- 1,148 vs. 3,138.9 +/- 1,847 g/h/L; oral clearance/bioavailability (CL/F), 2.3 +/- 1.0 vs. 2.0 +/- 1.0 L/h; volume of distribution/bioavailability (V/F), 19.5 +/- 4.4 vs. 17.2 +/- 4.3 L; t1/2 = 5.0 +/- 2.3 vs. 5.2 +/- 2.0 h) were observed between the obese and nonobese groups, respectively. The pharmacokinetic parameters assessed under CD conditions were also closely matched in the two groups. No differences in glucose responses to Sustacal challenge at baseline, SD, and CD (AUC0-->4.glucose:baseline, 52.3 +/- 18.0 vs. 44.9 +/- 9.8; SD, 50.4 +/- 20.9 vs. 36.1 +/- 11.0; CD, 37.8 +/- 10.7 vs. 36.6 +/- 8.5 mM/h) were noted between the obese and nonobese groups, respectively. However, glucose concentrations increased more and decreased to a smaller extent after SD in the obese as compared to nonobese subjects. Mean fasting serum insulin and C-peptide concentrations were not statistically different between the two groups. However, obese subjects exhibited higher fasting insulin (114.0 +/- 69 vs. 68.8 +/- 52 pM) at week 12 evaluation and C-peptide concentrations (0.83 +/- 0.2 vs. 0.63 +/- 0.2 nM) after SD as compared to the nonobese group. A smaller percentage increase in C peptide in response to Sustacal challenge was observed in the obese compared to the nonobese subjects (baseline, 60 +/- 25 vs. 117 +/- 117; SD, 119 +/- 39 vs. 193 +/- 149; and CD, 97 +/- 56 vs. 163 +/- 67%). In summary, the influence of obesity on glipizide pharmacokinetics appeared to be of little clinical significance. The observed differences in pharmacodynamics require further evaluation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8853933
This paper reviews the effects of renal insufficiency on the pharmacokinetics of oral antidiabetic drugs. Of the 3 groups of drugs currently available for the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), the sulphonylureas and metformin are, in general, well-tolerated and generally safe. In patients with chronic renal insufficiency, however, care must be exercised in the use of many of these drugs, as accumulation, either of the active drug or of active metabolites, can lead to serious adverse effects such as hypoglycaemia or, with metformin, lactic acidosis. The sulphonylurea drugs, to a greater or lesser degree, are metabolised in the liver to a variety of active or inactive compounds which, in general, are excreted by the kidneys. In addition, varying amounts of parent compound may depend on renal elimination. As a result, sulphonylurea drugs such as tolazamide, acetohexamide, chlorpropamide and glibenclamide (glyburide) are more likely to cause significant hypoglycaemia, as the metabolism of these drugs, compared with other commonly prescribed sulphonylureas, can lead to the accumulation of either the parent drug or the active metabolite in the presence of renal insufficiency. Tolbutamide, glipizide, gliclazide and gliquidone are much less likely to cause hypoglycaemia as their metabolites are either inactive or have minimal hypoglycaemic potency. Metformin is dependent on renal excretion and is not significantly metabolised. As a result, caution is required when treating patients with renal insufficiency where metformin accumulation can occur, with the danger of lactic acidosis. Although the correlation between creatinine clearance (CLCR) and total oral clearance of drug is weaker than the correlation between CLCR and renal clearance (CLR) of metformin, it is clear that renal insufficiency is associated with most cases of metformin-induced lactic acidosis. For this reason, clinicians in general would regard a raised plasma creatinine as a contraindication to metformin treatment. Acarbose, an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, and a relatively new agent for treating NIDDM, is likely to be safe in patients with impaired renal function, as the drug is not significantly absorbed from the gut, but data on this subject are lacking.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8866563
We conducted a randomized placebo-controlled study to determine the effects of the thiazolidinedione compound troglitazone on whole-body insulin sensitivity (SI), pancreatic beta-cell function, and glucose tolerance in 42 Latino women with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and a history of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), characteristics that carry an 80% risk of developing NIDDM within 5 years. After baseline oral (OGTT) and intravenous (IVGTT) glucose tolerance testing, subjects were assigned to take placebo or 200 or 400 mg troglitazone daily for 12 weeks (14 subjects per treatment group). An OGTT and IVGTT were repeated during the 12th week of treatment. Five subjects failed to complete the trial for personal reasons, and medication compliance averaged 90% in the remaining subjects, none of whom experienced a serious adverse event. SI, calculated by minimal model analysis of IVGTT results, changed by only 4 +/- 14% during 12 weeks of placebo administration, but increased 40 +/- 22 and 88 +/- 22% above basal during treatment with 200 and 400 mg troglitazone, respectively (P = 0.01 among groups). Troglitazone administration was also associated with a dose-dependent reduction in the total insulin area during IVGTTs, which was highly significant (P < 0.001), and with a reduction during OGTTs, which approached statistical significance (P = 0.09). Glucose tolerance improved slightly in all groups, but the magnitude of change did not differ significantly among groups, whether it was assessed as the number of subjects who continued to manifest IGT at 12 weeks (P = 0.64 among groups), the change in total glucose area during OGTTs (P = 0.58), or the change in fractional glucose disappearance rates during IVGTTs (P = 0.28). Among the women who received troglitazone, the greatest improvement in SI occurred in the women who had the highest diastolic blood pressures and the best IVGTT insulin responses during baseline testing. Our findings indicate that troglitazone improved whole-body insulin sensitivity and lowered circulating insulin concentrations in women with prior GDM who are at very high risk for NIDDM. The lack of improvement in glucose tolerance despite improved insulin sensitivity may be a manifestation of the beta-cell defect that predisposes the women to NIDDM. The overall pattern of response to troglitazone in our high-risk patients indicates that the drug is an ideal agent with which to test whether the amelioration of insulin resistance can delay or prevent diabetes in women with limited beta-cell reserve.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8874372
The literature contains few data examining the results of therapy with second-generation sulfonylurea drugs in subjects with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) after the onset of secondary failure to first-generation agents. The present study was undertaken to assess the efficacy of therapy with second-generation sulfonylurea in subjects with NIDDM following secondary failure to first-generation agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8875112
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8888072
To determine the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of glipizide after a single dose and 12 weeks of dosing in patients with type II diabetes mellitus, and evaluate the influence of aging.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8888075
Acarbose is a novel oral anti-hyperglycemic agent approved for the treatment of noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. It inhibits alpha-glucosidases in the small intestine, an action that delays the digestion and absorption of complex carbohydrates. Subsequently, there is a smaller rise in the postprandial plasma glucose levels and an overall decrease in the glycosylated hemoglobin by 0.5-1.0%. Potential advantages of acarbose include a greater effectiveness in controlling postprandial hyperglycemia, a low risk of hypoglycemia, and a possible delay in initiating insulin therapy. Acarbose can potentiate the hypoglycemic effects of sulfonylureas or insulin. It has not been associated with weight gain and hyperinsulinemia, both of which can occur with sulfonylureas or insulin. Gastrointestinal adverse effects are common with acarbose, and may decrease with continued treatment. Although rare, elevated serum transaminase levels have been reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8895047
The effect of adding a very low dose of a sulphonylurea (tolbutamide) to the treatment of 10 patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) was investigated. Patients took 0.1 mg tds of an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor orally for 8 weeks, and 50 mg tds of the sulphonylurea, tolbutamide, for the last 4 weeks of this period. The glycosylated haemoglobin level was significantly reduced during the combined treatment period compared with the level after treatment with alpha-glucosidase inhibitor alone (P = 0.035), although not compared with the pretreatment level. There were no significant changes in post-prandial blood glucose, serum lipid levels or connective peptide immunoreactivities. These preliminary results indicate that the addition of a very low dose of tolbutamide to a recommended diet and treatment with an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, may improve glucose metabolism without raising insulin secretion or influencing lipid metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8908377
To compare results obtained with metformin versus those obtained with DNA-recombinant insulin in obese patients with NIDDM suffering from secondary failure to sulfonylureas.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8908379
To compare the efficacy and safety of two daily doses of the new sulfonylurea, glimepiride (Amaryl), each as a once-daily dose or in two divided doses, in patients with NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8908409
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8913408
To review the clinical pharmacology of acarbose, an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, and to summarize its role in the pharmacotherapy of diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8941458
To compare the metabolic effects of three different frequently used regimens of insulin administration on blood glucose control and serum lipids, and the costs associated with this treatment, in subjects with NIDDM, who were poorly controlled with oral antihyperglycemic agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8944206
In subjects with type 2 diabetes, both defects of insulin secretion and insulin resistance contribute to the development of hyperglycaemia. The major goals of treatment are to optimise blood glucose control, and normalise the associated lipid disturbances and elevated blood pressure. Pharmacologic treatment is often necessary. This paper discusses new forms of oral treatment for subjects with type 2 diabetes. These include a new sulphonylurea compound glimepiride (Amaryl), which binds to a different protein of the putative sulphonylurea receptor than glibenclamide, and seems to have a lower risk of hypoglycaemia. A new class of drugs with insulin secretory capacity, of which repaglinide (NovoNorm) is the leading compound, is now in phase III clinical trials. Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors reversibly inhibit alpha-glucosidase enzymes in the small intestine, which delays cleavage of oligo- and disaccharides to monosaccharides. This leads to a delayed and reduced blood glucose rise after a meal. Two compounds are in development or have been marketed, ie, miglitol and acarbose (Glucobay). Another new class of drugs is the thiazolidine-diones, which seem to work by enhancing insulin action. The 'insulin sensitising' effects of the leading compounds, troglitazone and BRL 49653C, do not involve any effect on insulin secretion. These drugs also seem to beneficially influence serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Oral antihyperglycaemic agents can be used only during a limited period of time in most patients, after which the diabetic state 'worsens' and insulin therapy has to be started. In this light, two new forms of treatment which require subcutaneous injections are also discussed: the synthetic human amylin analogue AC137 (pramlintide) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36)-amide, a strong glucose-dependent stimulator of insulin secretion. It remains to be seen whether these compounds can be developed further for clinical use in patients with diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8949976
The Diabetes Control and Complications Study has shown that improved blood glucose control would delay the progress of microvascular complications of diabetes. However, in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, the major morbidity and mortality arises from premature cardiovascular disease. It is uncertain whether therapy aimed to improve diabetes control will prevent cardiovascular complications, and whether the available therapies, sulphonylurea, biguanides or insulin, may even have long-term deleterious side-effects. The UK Prospective Diabetes Study started in 1977 and is evaluating whether long-term therapy to improve glucose control would be advantageous in clinical practice. The study has demonstrated that it is difficult to maintain improved glucose control because of the progressive beta-cell dysfunction. The study is also evaluating whether improved control of hypertension would be advantageous. The progress of the study is summarized. The results are expected to be published in 1998.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8960852
The pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety of glimepiride were investigated in a single- and a multiple-dose open study in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and renal impairment and an initial creatinine clearance above 10 ml/ min. Patients were divided into three groups with creatinine clearance above 50 ml/min, 20-50 ml/min and under 20 ml/min. Fifteen fasting patients received a single dose of 3 mg glimepiride and serial blood and urine samples were taken over 24 h for pharmacokinetic and efficacy analyses. A further 16 patients received glimepiride over a 3-month period, an initial dose of 1 mg glimepiride being adjusted within the range 1 to 8 mg to achieve good glucose control. Pharmacokinetic evaluation was done on day 1 and after 3 months. Mean relative total clearance and mean volume of distribution of both single (41.6 ml/ min and 8.47 litres, respectively, when creatinine clearance was above 50 ml/min) and multiple doses of glimepiride increased in proportion to the degree of renal impairment (to 91.1 ml/min and 14.98 litres, respectively, when creatinine clearance was below 20 ml/min, single dose), whereas the terminal halflife and mean time remained unchanged. Lower relative total clearance and renal clearance of both glimepiride metabolites correlated significantly with lower creatinine clearance values. Of the 16 patients 12 required between 1 and 4 mg glimepiride to stabilize their fasting blood glucose. Glimepiride was well-tolerated and there were no drug-related adverse events. In conclusion glimepiride is safe, effective and has clearly-definable pharmacokinetics in diabetic patients with renal impairment. The increased plasma elimination of glimepiride with decreasing kidney function is explainable on the basis of altered protein binding with an increase in unbound drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8960854
The objective of the present study was to assess the relative efficacy of insulin or glibenclamide treatment for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) over 42 months. We performed a randomised, controlled trial allocating patients treated with diet and oral antihyperglycaemic agents to treatment with glibenclamide or insulin to achieve HbAlc levels under 7.5%. We included 36 subjects with established NIDDM of more than 2 years' duration. Mean HbAlc levels were significantly reduced in patients allocated to insulin treatment from 9.1 +/- 1.4% before the start to 7.8 +/- 1.3% (p < 0.05) after 1 year, and did not change significantly thereafter throughout the study period. Mean HbAlc levels increased during the study in the patients allocated to glibenclamide treatment, and 11 of 18 patients had to be switched to insulin treatment due to increasing hyperglycaemia (HbAlc > 10%). Mean body weight increased in the subjects allocated to insulin by 7.2 +/- 4.1 kg during the study period. In conclusion, insulin was more effective than glibenclamide treatment in obtaining control over hyperglycaemia in these patients, and once improved, glycaemic control did not deteriorate over 42 months in the insulin-treated group. Two thirds of the patients allocated to glibenclamide treatment had to be given insulin due to inadequate glycaemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9024742
The role of adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channels in the adaptive response to demand ischemia was tested in 22 patients treated with placebo or glibenclamide before sequential exercise testing or atrial pacing. Glibenclamide did not affect the improvement in signs of ischemia in both protocols, indicating that opening of these channels is not a mechanism of this adaptive response in humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9026680
The treatment of NIDDM patients with secondary failure to sulfonylureas is still a debated problem. In this study we compared in NIDDM patients with secondary failure to glyburide, the effect of adding a single, low-dose bed time either NPH or ultralent insulin injection (0.15-0.2 U/kg) to the previously ineffective sulfonylurea treatment. Both NPH and ultralent insulin therapy have been demonstrated to be effective in ameliorating metabolic control in NIDDM patients with secondary failure to sulfonylureas. However, the addition of bed-time ultralent insulin caused a greater and significant decrease in post prandial plasma glucose. In contrast, the average fasting plasma glucose decrease was significantly greater after NPH insulin administration. These results indicate that in NIDDM patients with secondary failure to glyburide bed-time ultralent insulin administration is a better tool to improve the post prandial plasma glucose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9055142
The potential for eprosartan, a nonbiphenyl tetrazole angiotensin II receptor antagonist, to affect the 24-hour plasma glucose profiles in type II diabetic patients treated with glyburide was investigated in this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind (eprosartan-placebo phase only), two-period, period-balanced, crossover study. All patients received a stable oral dose (3.75-10 mg/day) of glyburide for at least 30 days before the first dose of double-blind study medication was administered. Patients were randomized to receive either 200-mg oral doses of eprosartan twice daily or matching oral placebo doses concomitantly with glyburide for 7 days during each treatment period. After a minimum washout period of 14 days, patients were crossed over to the alternate treatment. Serial samples to measure glucose concentrations in plasma were collected over a 24-hour period on the day before administration of eprosartan or placebo and again on day 7. Mean glucose concentrations were comparable between treatment groups before administration of eprosartan or placebo. The point estimate (90% confidence interval) for the ratio of the average mean 24-hour plasma glucose concentrations of eprosartan + glyburide to placebo + glyburide after 7 days of administration was 0.96 (0.90, 1.01). Eprosartan did not significantly alter the 24-hour plasma glucose profile in patients with type II diabetes mellitus who were previously stabilized on glyburide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9059766
It is difficult to treat obese non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients (NIDDs) whose glycaemic control remains poor despite maximal oral antidiabetic therapy. We studied the effect of a continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) associated with a low-calorie diet and metformin 1,700 mg/day on glycaemic control and basal and stimulated insulin secretion in a series of 82 overweight NIDD before (T1), during CSII (T2), and after CSII withdrawal (T3). Patients were treated for 8 to 23 days with a mean amount of 0.50 +/- 0.02 IU/kg/day. Glycaemic control was very good after 3-5 days of CSII and remained good at T3. At T2, fasting and postprandial plasma C peptide levels decreased significantly. At T3, fasting C peptide was very similar to T1, and postprandial C peptide was significantly higher than at T1. The molar fasting and postprandial plasma C peptide/glycaemia ratios increased significantly at T3. After glucagon injection, the molar delta C peptide/glycaemia ratio was significantly increased at T2 and even higher at T3. At T2, as at T1 and T3, there were significant correlations between fasting and postprandial C peptide levels and between the glucagon-induced C peptide peak and fasting and postprandial C peptide levels. Between T1 and T3 weight changes correlated significantly with the molar fasting C peptide/glycaemia ratio at T1. Twenty-nine of the 30 patients for whom this ratio was > 6.6 x 10(-8) lost weight. The length of CSII treatment did not correlate with weight changes or other biological parameters. This study shows that CSII with moderate amounts of insulin associated with a low-calorie diet and metformin provided rapid glycaemic control, led to weight loss, maintained regulation of insulin secretion and seemed to improve insulin secretion and sensitivity. These results were obtained in only 8 to 10 days.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9068933
The effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) sertraline 200 mg/day on the metabolism of intravenously administered tolbutamide was examined in a randomised nonblinded parallel-group study in 25 healthy male volunteers. There was a small but statistically significant decrease (16%) in the clearance of tolbutamide in patients receiving the maximum recommended dosage of sertraline. The terminal elimination rate constant was also significantly reduced, corresponding to the increase in the terminal elimination half-life (from 6.9 to 8.6 hours). The decrease in clearance was not associated with any significant changes in plasma protein binding or in the apparent volume of distribution of tolbutamide. This suggests that the change in tolbutamide clearance may be due to a slight inhibition of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzyme CYP2C9/10 when sertraline was administered in its maximum recommended dosage. However, the small changes in the volume of distribution and plasma binding of tolbutamide after sertraline treatment indicate that there is a minimal interaction between sertraline and tolbutamide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9069587
A cross-sectional population study was performed in a cohort of 890 non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients residing in the greater Denver metropolitan region. Its purpose was to evaluate the relationship between insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents (OHAs) with regard to metabolic control and diabetic complications. The mean glycosylated hemoglobin for patients treated with insulin was 12.0 +/- 0.15% versus 11.4 +/- 0.14% (p < .03) for OHA. The difference in fasting blood sugar for the insulin-treated group (195.0 +/- 3.5 mg/dl) versus the OHA-treated group (194.0 +/- 2.9 mg/dl) was not statistically significant. Categorical increases in urinary albumin excretion were associated positively within insulin versus OHA therapy (p < .0001). Patients treated with insulin therapy had a higher frequency of peripheral vascular disease (insulin therapy, 14%; OHA therapy, 10%; p < .05); neuropathy (insulin therapy, 55%; OHA therapy, 37%; p < .0001); and retinopathy (insulin therapy, 71%; OHA therapy, 45%; p < .0001). The frequency of cardiovascular disease was equivalent in the two groups (17% versus 13%). In protocols correcting for diabetes duration, glycosylated hemoglobin, and gender in a multivariate model, the use of insulin still was related significantly to increases in urinary albumin excretion (p < .01), retinopathy (p < .0001), and neuropathy (p < .0008). In a subgroup of individuals with diabetes duration > 10 years (n = 211 for insulin treatment, n = 118 for OHA treatment), the frequency of neuropathy still was significantly higher in the insulin group (63% vs 49%; p < .016) as was retinopathy (85% vs 58%; p < .0001). Overt albuminuria also was more significant in the insulin-treated patients (p < .04). In summary, the NIDDM patients treated with insulin had more nephropathy, retinopathy, and neuropathy than did NIDDM patients treated with OHA, independent of duration of diabetes, fasting blood glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, age, and blood pressure level. These results in NIDDM patients may be due to contributions from worse blood glucose control at an earlier stage in the patients' diabetes and/or the mitogenic, atherogenic, thrombogenic, and vascular permeability effects of insulin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9069698
Rifampicin is a potent inducer of the hepatic microsomal enzyme system. However, the drug has been shown to cause clinically important interactions with many drugs. This study was designed to test the interaction of rifampicin with the oral hypoglycaemic agent glibenclamide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9075819
One form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY3) results from mutations in the hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF)-1alpha gene, located on chromosome 12q24.2. The primary objective of the present study was to search for genetic variation in the HNF-1alpha gene in nine nonrelated Danish Caucasian subjects with MODY. Direct sequencing of the coding region and intron-exon boundaries of the HNF-1alpha gene revealed 2 novel and 1 previously reported missense mutations and 2 novel frameshift mutations in five of nine MODY subjects. These five mutations were found in neither 84 NIDDM patients nor 84 control subjects. One glucose-tolerant lean male with a P447L missense mutation, which in his relatives caused MODY, underwent an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), a tolbutamide modified frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test, and a glucagon test to examine for a possible early beta-cell abnormality. He had a low insulin secretion rate during an OGTT, but a twofold increase in pancreatic beta-cell response after intravenous glucose and a 2.5- to 4-fold increase in beta-cell response after either intravenous tolbutamide or intravenous glucagon loads. In conclusion, 1) mutations in the HNF-1alpha gene are common in Danish Caucasian MODY patients, and 2) early stages in the pathogenesis of MODY3 caused by the P447L mutation may be characterized by a hyperexcitability of beta-cells to intravenous secretagogues.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9096964
Many newly diagnosed obese African-American patients with history of severe hyperglycemia or diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) are able to discontinue pharmacological treatment with continued good metabolic control. However, many of these individuals relapse into hyperglycemia within 1 year. In such patients, we compared the effect of low-dose sulfonylurea and dietary therapy in the prevention of recurrence of hyperglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9096986
To investigate the efficacy, safety, and dose-response characteristics of an extended-release preparation of glipizide using the gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) on plasma glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), and insulin secretion to a liquid-mixed meal in NIDDM patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9105542
The duration of action and the pharmacokinetics of gliquidone (1-cyclohexyl-3-[[4-[2-(3,4-dihydro-7-methoxy-4,4-dimethyl-1, 3-dioxo-2(1H)-isochinolyl)ethyl]phenyl]-sulfonyl]-urea, AR-DF 26 SE, CAS 33342-05-1, Glurenorm, Beglynor) were investigated in 32 patients with non-insulin-dependent (type 2) diabetes mellitus over 16 h. In a single-blinded cross-over design vs. placebo, one 30 mg tablet gliquidone was administered 15 min before breakfast. Concomitant to the measurement of glucose and insulin, the gliquidone plasma levels of 20 subjects were determined by a new specific liquid chromatographic (HPLC) assay method with fluorescence detection, and the pharmacokinetic parameters calculated. Following the gliquidone administration, the mean plasma glucose profiles of the responders were up to 15% lower than with placebo (p < 0.005) between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., representing a duration of the blood sugar-lowering effect of 8 to 10 h. Insulin values were raised, with peaks over 40% higher, during or shortly after meals. Subsequently, the insulin levels returned to approximately the same levels obtained with placebo during the postprandial phase. Plasma concentrations of gliquidone showed pronounced interindividual variability. The mean maximum concentration in plasma Cmax was 0.65 microgram/ml, (range: 0.12-2.14 micrograms/ml, coefficient of variation (CV): 82%). The median time to reach maximum plasma concentrations tmax was 2.25 h (range: 1.25-4.75 h). The areas under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero time to infinity (AUC0-infinity) and the mean terminal elimination half-lives (t1/2 beta) were computed from those patients (N = 8) who exhibited at least five plasma levels above the limit of quantitation in the terminal log-linear phase using a two-compartment model: the mean AUC0-infinity was 5.1 micrograms.h/ml (range: 1.5-10.1 micrograms.h/ml, CV 56%). The dominant half-life t1/2 alpha derived from therapeutically relevant plasma levels of gliquidone (> 80 ng/ml) was approximately 1.2 h (range: 0.4-3.0 h. CV: 71%) and the mean terminal half-life t1/2 beta was approximately 8 h (range: 5.7-9.4 h, CV: 17%). From the pharmacodynamic behavior as well as from the pharmacokinetic parameters it can be deduced that gliquidone belongs to the class of short-acting sulfonylureas used in antidiabetic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9114921
The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, clinical efficacy, adverse effects, drug interactions, and dosage and administration of metformin hydrochloride are reviewed. Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent; it lowers the blood glucose concentration without causing hypoglycemia. Proposed mechanisms of action include decreased intestinal absorption of glucose, increased glucose uptake from the blood into the tissues, decreased glucose production in the liver, and decreased insulin requirements for glucose disposal. Metformin is slowly absorbed from the small intestine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism. The half-life is about five hours. The major route of elimination is renal; the drug is contraindicated in patients with impaired renal function. In double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, metformin has shown efficacy in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). The drug is as effective as sulfonylureas in patients with diabetes who are nonobese or obese and whose diabetes is uncontrolled by diet alone. Metformin may be useful as addon therapy in obese patients with diabetes uncontrolled by sulfonylureas and diet. Lipid profiles may be favorably influenced. The most common adverse effects are gastrointestinal. A rare but potentially fatal adverse effect is lactic acidosis. Metformin has the potential to interact with cationic drugs eliminated by the renal tubular pathway. The usual effective dosage is 1.5-2.5 g/day orally in two or three divided doses. Metformin hydrochloride is an effective alternative to sulfonylureas in obese and non-obese patients with NIDDM in whom diet alone has not achieved glycemic control, and it may be useful as addon therapy in patients whose diabetes has not responded adequately to sulfonylureas plus dietary measures.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9135927
To compare the therapeutic effects of the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor miglitol (BAY m 1099), the sulfonylurea glibenclamide, and placebo on parameters of metabolic control and safety in patients with NIDDM that is inadequately controlled by diet alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9135928
To compare the effects of chronic glibenclamide and metformin therapy on blood pressure (BP) and cardiovascular responsiveness in patients with NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9143853
Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) is increasing in incidence as the population in most countries ages. Multiple pathology is common in the elderly, and cardiovascular disease is usually present at diagnosis. Patients who develop NIDDM at age 65 years may live long enough to develop microvascular complications. Others who are frail and have multiple pathologies may require treatment to prevent both symptomatic hyperglycaemia and dehydration, whilst avoiding hypoglycaemia. The goals in the management of NIDDM in elderly people are the prevention of complications and the relief of symptoms. Treatment must be tailored to the individual's expectations and should be reviewed regularly with the changing circumstances of aging. If dietary measures fail to control glucose levels, antihyperglycaemic sulphonylureas are the most frequently prescribed form of treatment. However, concern over the potential of these drugs to cause hypoglycaemia limits the choice to second generation sulphonylureas, agents that preserve the first phase of insulin release and have non-biologically active metabolites that are promptly eliminated. The biguanide agent metformin is also appropriate in elderly obese patients with NIDDM who do not have renal, liver or cardiac failure. The combination of a sulphonylurea and metformin can be effective in patients in whom insulin would otherwise be required. Novel compounds such as acarbose and the thiazolinediones may also be useful in the treatment of older diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9146849
The main purpose of this paper is to describe the relationship between serum concentrations of glibenclamide and its main metabolites and the effects on blood glucose levels, the clinically most relevant parameter to assess in diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9159660
Metformin alleviates hyperglycemia of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) by inhibiting hepatic glucose production and improving peripheral insulin sensitivity. In contrast to sulfonylureas, metformin does not stimulate insulin-secretion, promote weight gain, exacerbate hyperinsulinemia, or cause hypoglycemia. It also favorably affects serum lipids.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9162613
The clinical efficacy of troglitazone, a new oral hypoglycaemic agent was investigated in Type 2 diabetes in combination with sulphonylureas. Two hundred and ninety-one patients with Type 2 diabetes (age 21-81 years) whose previous glycaemic control by sulphonylureas was judged stable but unsatisfactory (fasting plasma glucose (FPG) > 8.3 mmol I-1) were randomly allocated into the troglitazone treatment group (troglitazone group, n = 145) or the placebo treatment group (placebo group, n = 146). They were treated by test drugs for 12 weeks in combination with the same dose of sulphonylureas before the trial. One hundred and twenty-two patients who received troglitazone and 126 patients who received placebo were evaluated for efficacy. The baseline characteristics did not differ significantly between the two groups. In the troglitazone group, FPG and HbA(1c) decreased significantly after the treatment (before vs after, FPG: 10.8 +/- 2.0 mmol I(-1) vs 9.2 +/- 2.5 mmol I(-1), p< 0.001; HbA(1c): 9.2 +/- 1.4% vs 8.5 +/- 1.5%, p< 0.001). FPG and HbA(1c) did not change after the treatment in the placebo group (before vs after, FPG: 10.5 +/- 1.7 mmol I(-1) vs 10.7 +/- 2.2 mmol I(-1); HbA(1c): 9.0 +/- 1.5% vs 9.2 +/- 1.6 %). Serum total cholesterol and HDL-cholesterol did not change in either group, however, serum triglyceride significantly decreased in the troglitazone group. No serious adverse events occurred in either group. In conclusion, troglitazone 400 mg day(-1) had a significant hypoglycaemic effect in combination with sulphonylureas without any serious adverse events. Troglitazone, developed as an insulin action enhancer, can be a useful hypoglycaemic agent in the treatment of patients with Type 2 diabetes who are not well controlled by sulphonylureas alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9167112
This study compared the effect of mild exercise while fasting on plasma glucose concentrations in subjects with NIDDM treated with extended-release glipizide and subjects not taking an oral hypoglycemic agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9184703
To investigate the metabolic effects and frequency of adverse events with 6 mg of glimepiride, a new oral sulfonylurea, given both in once- and twice-daily dosages to patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9186077
To test the hypothesis that renal failure has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of glyburide, five subjects with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis, and four NIDDM subjects with normal renal function were studied. On days 0, 1, and 15, subjects consumed 33 carbohydrate grams, and glucose, insulin, and C-peptide were measured for 4 hours. On day 1, subjects received 3 mg glyburide and measured plasma concentrations for 48 hours. On day 3, multiple dosing on 3 mg glyburide daily began. On day 15, plasma concentrations were measured for 48 hours. The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of glyburide, glucose, insulin, and C-peptide were determined as well as daily fasting blood glucose. Glucose area under the curve (AUC) and daily fasting glucose levels did not change in either controls or hemodialysis subjects. The mean serum glyburide blood levels and pharmacokinetics did not differ after initial or chronic glyburide administration in NIDDM subjects with end-stage renal disease treated with hemodialysis compared with controls. Glyburide half-life averaged 3.3 hours in control subjects and 5.0 hours in hemodialysis subjects. Hemodialysis subjects had increased C-peptide and insulin AUC with chronic dosing. Renal failure does not affect the pharmacokinetics of 3.0 mg oral glyburide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9195119
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9212313
The objective was to evaluate the effect of insulin treatment on circulating islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP). Twelve patients with NIDDM and secondary failure were studied on oral agents and then switched to insulin treatment. Fasting and postprandial IAPP concentrations were measured on oral treatment and on insulin treatment. In 5 of the patients no postprandial concentrations were determined. In the 7 patients who were investigated both fasting and postprandially the fasting IAPP concentration was 6.5 +/- 1.2 pmol l(-1) (mean +/- SEM) during oral treatment with a rise to 13.5 +/- 3.1 90 min after breakfast (p = 0.028). On insulin treatment HbA1c decreased from 8.6 +/- 0.5 to 7.5 +/- 0.4% (p< 0.03) and plasma C-peptide concentration was significantly lowered (p< 0.01). There was a close correlation using simple regression between the per cent change of IAPP concentration and the per cent change of C-peptide concentration during this period (r = 0.88; p< 0.01). In the total patient material of 12 patients there was a significant correlation using simple regression analysis between per cent change of IAPP concentration and per cent change of C-peptide concentration using all 48 measurements available (r = 0.58: p< 0.001). These data suggest that secretion of IAPP is lowered when endogenous insulin secretion is lowered by administration of exogenous insulin in patients with NIDDM. Thus, if IAPP secretion has a pathogenetic role in the development of beta cell failure in NIDDM, insulin treatment might delay this deterioration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9222648
Mortality according to glucose tolerance was studied to determine the prognosis of impaired glucose tolerance. Among 2500 persons tested in a community screening programme in 1962-1965 and followed-up for mortality to the end of 1987, age-sex-adjusted mortality rates were 37.9 +/- 1.9, 53.6 +/- 4.2, and 70.1 +/- 3.6 deaths per 1000 person-years (+/-SE) in those with normal glucose tolerance, impaired glucose tolerance, and diabetes by World Health Organization criteria at baseline. Age-sex-adjusted mortality rates due to ischaemic heart disease were 14.3 +/- 1.1, 16.3 +/- 2.4, and 25.8 +/- 2.0 deaths per 1000 person-years, respectively. Using criteria predating those of the World Health Organization 147 men with abnormal glucose tolerance were entered into a randomized clinical trial in which 49 were treated with tolbutamide for approximately 10 years. Those treated had lower mortality rates from all causes (mortality rate ratio = 0.66, 95% confidence interval = 0.39, 1.10) and from ischaemic heart disease (mortality rate ratio = 0.42, 95% confidence interval = 0.16, 1.12) than those not receiving tolbutamide. Thus mortality rates are increased in persons with impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes, and the small clinical trial suggests that tolbutamide may be beneficial in men with abnormal glucose tolerance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9223393
The aim of the present study was to assess the beta cell response to glimepiride, administered orally, during and following a hyperglycaemic clamp in 14 NIDDM patients (7 males), aged 62.5 (St. Dev. 7.7) years with a body mass index of 27.3 (2.8) kg m(-2) and HbA(Ic) of 7.0 (0.7)% at baseline, in a placebo controlled study. All patients were on stable treatment with a second generation sulphonylurea for at least 8 weeks prior to randomization and received placebo (P) or 5 mg glimepiride (G) daily for 7 days and 10 mg prior to a hyperglycaemic clamp (10.9 mmol l(-1) for 60 min, preceded by i.v. insulin infusion to stabilize fasting blood glucose levels at 4.0 mmol l(-1)). The clamp was followed by an observation period of 2 h in 5 subjects and 3.5 h in the next 9 subjects, during which blood glucose and plasma insulin, C-peptide and proinsulin levels were measured at regular intervals to determine the effect of glimepiride on the interaction between changes in glycaemia and plasma levels of beta cell products. Neither G nor P elicited a first phase insulin response. Areas under plasma insulin curve during the 1 h hyperglycaemic clamp were 94.2 (39.5) vs 69.1 (26.5) pmol.h l(-1) in G and P clamps, respectively (p = 0.002). Total areas (AUC) under the plasma insulin curve were 377 (145) vs 271 (113) pmol.h l(-1) in G and P clamps (< 0.05). Total AUCs of C-peptide were 309 (96) and 259 (102 pmol.h.(-1), in G and P clamps, respectively, p = 0.01. Total AUCs of proinsulin were 176 (77) versus 119 (56) pmol.h l(-1) in G and P clamps, respectively, p = 0.004. Five hours after G and P administration blood glucose levels were 4.7) 92.1) mmol(-1) in the G clamp vs 6.2 (1.9) mmol l(-1) in the P clamp (p = 0.001). The number of hypoglycaemic events (blood glucose < 3.0 mmol l(-1)) in the 3.5 h observation period was 3 in G clamps vs 0 in P clamps (p = ns). In conclusion, glimepiride stimulates the second phase insulin and proinsulin secretion. The lowering of blood glucose levels is not accompanied by a commensurate inhibition of the insulin secretion. Further studies are required to compare this new drug with currently available oral hypoglycaemic agents, with respect to glycaemic control and the risk of hypoglycaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9239399
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) is associated with defects in both insulin secretion and action and carries a high risk for conversion to non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Troglitazone, an insulin sensitizing agent, reduces glucose concentrations in subjects with NIDDM and IGT but is not known to affect insulin secretion. We sought to determine the role of beta cell function in mediating improved glucose tolerance. Obese subjects with IGT received 12 wk of either 400 mg daily of troglitazone (n = 14) or placebo (n = 7) in a randomized, double-blind design. Study measures at baseline and after treatment were glucose and insulin responses to a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test, insulin sensitivity index (SI) assessed by a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test, insulin secretion rates during a graded glucose infusion, and beta cell glucose-sensing ability during an oscillatory glucose infusion. Troglitazone reduced integrated glucose and insulin responses to oral glucose by 10% (P = 0.03) and 39% (P = 0.003), respectively. SI increased from 1.3+/-0.3 to 2.6+/-0.4 x 10(-)5min-1pM-1 (P = 0.005). Average insulin secretion rates adjusted for SI over the glucose interval 5-11 mmol/liter were increased by 52% (P = 0.02), and the ability of the beta cell to entrain to an exogenous oscillatory glucose infusion, as evaluated by analysis of spectral power, was improved by 49% (P = 0.04). No significant changes in these parameters were demonstrated in the placebo group. In addition to increasing insulin sensitivity, we demonstrate that troglitazone improves the reduced beta cell response to glucose characteristic of subjects with IGT. This appears to be an important factor in the observed improvement in glucose tolerance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9250558
To assess the effect of bromfenac sodium, a nonnarcotic analgesic drug under development, on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of glyburide in patients with type II diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9279533
Insulin release occurs in two phases; sulphonylurea derivatives may have different potencies in stimulating first- and second-phase insulin release. We studied the effect of glibenclamide on insulin secretion at submaximally and maximally stimulating blood glucose levels with a primed hyperglycaemic glucose clamp. Twelve healthy male subjects, age (mean +/- SEM) 22.5 +/- 0.5 years, body mass index (BMI) 21.7 +/- 0.6 kgm-2, were studied in a randomized, double-blind study design. Glibenclamide 10 mg or placebo was taken before a 4-h hyperglycaemic clamp (blood glucose 8 mmol L-1 during the first 2 h and 32 mmol L-1 during the next 2 h). During hyperglycaemic clamp at 8 mmol L-1, the areas under the delta insulin curve (AUC delta insulin, mean +/- SEM) from 0 to 10 min (first phase) were not different: 1007 +/- 235 vs. 1059 +/- 261 pmol L-1 x 10 min (with and without glibenclamide, P = 0.81). However, glibenclamide led to a significantly larger increase in AUC delta insulin from 30 to 120 min (second phase): 16087 +/- 4489 vs. 7107 +/- 1533 pmol L-1 x 90 min (with and without glibenclamide respectively, P < 0.03). The same was true for AUC delta C-peptide no difference from 0 to 10 min but a significantly higher AUC delta C-peptide from 30 to 120 min on the glibenclamide day (P < 0.01). The M/I ratio (mean glucose infusion rate divided by mean plasma insulin concentration) from 60 to 120 min, a measure of insulin sensitivity, did not change: 0.26 +/- 0.05 vs. 0.22 +/- 0.03 mumol kg-1 min-1 pmol L-1 (with and without glibenclamide, P = 0.64). During hyperglycaemic clamp at 32 mmol L-1, the AUC delta insulin from 120 to 130 min (first phase) was not different on both study days: 2411 +/- 640 vs. 3193 +/- 866 pmol L-1 x 10 min (with and without glibenclamide, P = 0.29). AUC delta insulin from 150 to 240 min (second phase) also showed no difference: 59623 +/- 8735 vs. 77389 +/- 15161 pmol L-1 x 90 min (with and without glibenclamide, P = 0.24). AUC delta C-peptide from 120 to 130 min and from 150 to 240 min were slightly lower on the glibenclamide study day (both P < 0.04). The M/I ratio from 180 to 240 min did not change: 0.24 +/- 0.04 vs. 0.30 +/- 0.07 mumol kg-1 min-1 pmol L-1 (with and without glibenclamide, P = 0.25). In conclusion, glibenclamide increases second-phase insulin secretion only at a submaximally stimulating blood glucose level without enhancement of first-phase insulin release and has no additive effect on insulin secretion at maximally stimulating blood glucose levels. Glibenclamide did not change insulin sensitivity in this acute experiment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9283792
To hypothesize if glibenclamide, which increases insulin levels, also increases leptin concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9290539
At least 90% of the 12 to 15 million persons with diabetes mellitus in the United States, half of whose condition remains undiagnosed, have type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is preceded by a long period of impaired glucose tolerance, a reversible metabolic state associated with increased prevalence of macrovascular complications. Thus, at the time of diagnosis, long-term complications have developed in almost one fourth of patients. Susceptibility to type 2 diabetes requires genetic (most likely polygenic) and acquired factors, and its pathogenesis involves an interplay of progressive insulin resistance and beta-cell failure. The ideal treatment of type 2 diabetes should reverse insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction in most treated patients and prevent, delay, or reverse long-term complications. Current strategies are aimed at amelioration of insulin resistance (diet, exercise, weight loss, and metformin and troglitazone therapy), augmentation of insulin supply (sulfonylurea and insulin therapy), or limitation of postprandial hyperglycemia (acarbose therapy). Future therapies probably will target (1) insulin resistance, using a multifaceted approach; (2) hepatic glucose production, using gluconeogenesis inhibitors; (3) excess nonesterified fatty acid production, using lipolysis inhibitors; and (4) fat oxidation, using carnitine palmitoyltransferase I and II inhibitors. Attempts also could be made to stimulate energy expenditure and increase nonoxidative glucose disposal by means of beta 3-adrenoceptor agonists. One promising strategy is an attack on multiple pathophysiological processes by combining antidiabetic agents with disparate mechanisms of action. Thus, we now have unprecedented resources for drug therapy for diabetes, with great opportunity for innovative combinations. It is hoped that these expanded choices will provide the tools necessary for a more efficient management of type 2 diabetes and prevention of its long-term complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9300232
Monitoring of metabolic control in patients with non-insulin-dependent (Type 2) diabetes (NIDDM) is usually based upon blood glucose assay in the morning (after an overnight fast) and in the postprandial state (breakfast or lunch). However, this schedule does not seek low blood glucose values, especially in the evening. We have conducted a prospective study of laboratory blood glucose profiles (8 am, 9.30 am after a 35 g carbohydrate breakfast and in the evening between 5 and 7 pm). We have included 58 consecutive NIDDM patients regularly followed in our clinic (39 men, age 60 +/- 11.5 years, diabetes duration 8.6 +/- 6.5 years, BMI 25.5 +/- 3 kg m-2), treated with the sulphonylurea gliclazide, alone (40-320 mg 24 h-1, mean 170 +/- 110 mg) (group 1, n = 32) or in combination with metformin (1000-3000 mg 24 h-1, 2400 +/- 620 mg) (group 2, n = 26). All patients were stable, with no change in dosage for at least 3 months. Mean glycaemic control was good (group 1 HbA1c: 6.5 +/- 1.1%, group 2: 6.9 +/- 0.7%). Evening blood glucose values were the lowest of the day in 26 patients of group 1 (81.3%) and in 22 of group 2 (84.6%). Mean evening blood glucose levels were lower (p = 0.001) than 8 am values (group 1: 5.8 +/- 1.4 vs 6.1 +/- 1.6 mmol l-1, group 2: 6.5 +/- 1.8 vs 6.9 +/- 1.9) and than 9.30 am values (group 1: 7.6 +/- 1.5, group 2: 12.3 +/- 2.8). No blood glucose values in the hypoglycaemic range were observed. HbA1c was strongly correlated (p = 0.002 to 0.0001) in the whole group with 8 am (r = 0.39), 9.30 am (r = 0.56), and evening blood glucose values (r = 0.42). These results indicate that, in patients treated with the sulphonylurea gliclazide, alone or in combination with metformin, the lowest blood glucose values occur in the evening more frequently (4/5) than in the morning. Therefore, evening blood glucose determination should be performed systematically in the course of the metabolic evaluation of NIDDM patients on oral hypoglycaemic agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9313749
Subjects with NIDDM have increased plasma proinsulin concentrations, compared with nondiabetic subjects, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of circulating insulin-like molecules. It remains uncertain whether this reflects a primary beta-cell defect in proinsulin processing or is secondary to hyperglycemia. We addressed this question by assessing the effects of reducing hyperglycemia on relative hyperproinsulinemia in subjects with NIDDM. Eight subjects with NIDDM underwent three 8-week periods in a randomized crossover design of therapy with diet alone, sulfonylurea (gliclazide), or insulin (ultralente). The effects on beta-cell peptide concentrations were assessed 1) fasting, 2) in response to hyperglycemic clamping, and 3) in response to an injection of the nonglucose secretogogue arginine and compared with measurements in seven nondiabetic control subjects. Both sulfonylurea and insulin therapy substantially reduced fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1e) concentrations, compared with diet therapy alone. The diabetic subjects on diet therapy had relative hyperproinsulinemia, assessed relative to C-peptide concentrations, fasting and in response to hyperglycemic clamping and arginine, compared with control subjects. Neither sulfonylurea nor insulin therapy altered the relative hyperproinsulinemia. Insulin therapy reduced fasting proinsulin concentrations from geometric mean 29.4 (1 SD range, 14.6-59.0) pmol/l on diet therapy to 18.7 (7.3-48.1) pmol/l (P < 0.05). A similar trend was evident with fasting C-peptide concentrations with a reduction from 0.9 (0.6-1.4) nmol/l on diet therapy to 0.6 (0.4-0.9) nmol/l (P = 0.06), so that the relative hyperproinsulinemia, assessed as the ratio of fasting proinsulin to C-peptide, was unchanged by insulin. Similarly, insulin therapy failed to reduce the ratio of proinsulin to C-peptide concentrations in response to a hyperglycemic clamp and in the acute incremental response to arginine. Failure to improve the relative hyperproinsulinemia of NIDDM, despite significant reduction of hyperglycemia with exogenous insulin therapy, supports the hypothesis that relative hyperproinsulinemia in NIDDM is a reflection of a primary beta-cell defect rather than being secondary to hyperglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9313756
This study evaluates the effects of insulin versus glibenclamide on lipoprotein metabolism at comparable levels of blood glucose control, in particular on the concentration and distribution of VLDL subfractions and lipolytic enzyme activities in nine NIDDM men (aged 56 +/- 3 years, BMI 26.5 +/- 0.9 kg/m2) (means +/- SE) participating in a crossover study. After a 3-week washout period, patients were randomly assigned to 2-month treatment periods (insulin or glibenclamide); thereafter, each patient crossed to the other treatment. At the end of each period, mean daily blood glucose (MDBG), HbA1e, plasma lipids, lipoproteins (VLDL, LDL, HDL), lipoprotein subfractions (VLDL1, 2, 3; HDL2, HDL3), and post-heparin lipase activities (lipoprotein lipase [LPL], hepatic lipase [HL]) were evaluated. Although glucose control was similar at the end of both periods (MDBG 8.3 +/- 0.3 vs. 7.9 +/- 0.3 mmol/l; HbA1c 7.4 +/- 0.3 vs. 7.0 +/- 0.2%, insulin versus glibenclamide), insulin compared with glibenclamide induced a significant reduction in plasma triglycerides (0.9 +/- 0.1 vs. 1.1 +/- 0.1 mmol/l, P < 0.05), VLDL triglycerides (50.1 +/- 12.2 vs. 63.6 +/- 12.3 mg/dl, P < 0.02), VLDL1 lipid concentration (24.9 +/- 7.5 vs. 39.9 +/- 9.5 mg/dl, P < 0.006), and increased HDL2 cholesterol (25.2 +/- 1.6 vs. 20.3 +/- 1.3 mg/dl, P < 0.03). In terms of VLDL percentage subfraction distribution, with insulin, there was a decrease in the larger subfractions (VLDL1 26.5 +/- 3.0 vs. 37.8 +/- 3.4%, P < 0.02) and an increase in the smallest (VLDL3 47.3 +/- 3.8 vs. 37.3 +/- 3.3%, P < 0.05). Moreover, HL activity was significantly lower after insulin than after glibenclamide (HL 247.2 +/- 22.3 vs. 263.5 +/- 22.6 mU/ml, P < 0.05). In conclusion, compared with glibenclamide, insulin treatment (independent of variations in glucose control) is able to decrease significantly plasma triglycerides, to increase HDL2 cholesterol, and to reduce only the concentration of the larger VLDL subfractions, with a consequent redistribution of their profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9340472
Biguanides have been used in treatment of diabetes mellitus for over 30 years now. Due to frequent occurrence of lactic acidosis, particularly in patients with serious contraindications to biguanide therapy and in cases of non-compliance with dosage instructions, buformin and phenformin were taken off the market in most European countries at the end of the seventies. Metformin continued to be allowed, since the risk of lactic acidosis is 20 times less than with phenformin or buformin due to the different pharmacokinetic properties of the substance. Plenty of clinical experience has been gained with metformin, documented in a large number of reliable long-term studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9353625
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9403288
Voglibose is a new and potent inhibitor of alpha-glucosidases used for treatment of diabetes mellitus. It increases gastro-intestinal motility and could thus affect absorption of other concurrently administered antidiabetic drugs. The aim of this study was to investigate whether or not voglibose modifies the pharmacokinetics of glibenclamide, a widely used oral antidiabetic, and the glibenclamide-induced decrease in fasting serum glucose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9404682
In this article, we report the assisting effect of lithium on hypoglycemic treatment in patients with diabetes. Thirty-eight diabetic patients, 15 male and 23 female, aged 20-70 yr, 33 noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients, and 5 insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patients, were recruited in this study. Fasting and 1-h postprandial blood glucose (BG) profiles were undertaken from three groups of patients with diabetes before and after short-term of treatment of lithium carbonate. Group I was treated with diet only, Group II with oral hypoglycemic agents (OHA), and Group III with insulin. The fasting blood glucose (FBG) level and 1-h postprandial blood glucose (1-h PBG) level before and after treatment of lithium were: Group I: FBG: 7.67 +/- 0.48 vs 7.13 +/- 0.82; 1-h PBG 15.13 +/- 0.88 vs 10.33 +/- 0.96; Group II: FBG: 8.84 +/- 0.67 vs 6.04 +/- 0.57; 1-h PBG: 12.33 +/- 0.72 vs 9.95 +/- 0.82; Group III: FBG: 10.87 +/- 0.83 vs 6.83 +/- 0.79; 1-h PBG: 12.45 +/- 0.93 vs 9.17 +/- 1.00 mmol/L, respectively. The FBG and PBG of all three groups decreased significantly after lithium treatment, except the FBG in Group I. These data suggest that combined with other therapy, lithium could improve glucose metabolism in most patients with diabetes. Our results suggest that lithium has an assisting hypoglycemic effect on antidiabetic treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9405908
To define the metabolic effects of metformin in the treatment of NIDDM and to evaluate potential mechanisms for its ability to improve glycemic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9440664
Retrospective studies have identified oral sulfonylureas, age, and fasting as major risk factors for hypoglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes. Sulfonylureas may be withheld from elderly patients out of concern for hypoglycemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9447960
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9454524
Uncertainty exists about the suitability of oral hypoglycemic drugs and insulin therapy for patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9463023
Hypoglycaemic sulfonamides differ in their properties, which vary in clinical importance. The potency of sulfonamide has increased with the generations. However, this potency is compensated in practice by the dose prescribed, which is much smaller for recent generations. The half-life is a far more important property. The effective action period is correlated with half-life but is much longer. The action period for "short-term" sulfonamides is < or = 24 h (tolbutamide, glipizide) and can exceed 24 h for "long-term" sulfonamides (e.g. glibenclamide). Metabolism and elimination reduce the risk of accumulation. All sulfonamides are metabolised more than 95% by the liver. The metabolites are inactive except for one from glibenclamide. As a function of their action period and possibly of intrinsic properties, some sulfonamides more than others (e.g. glibenclamide) affect fasting hepatic glucose production, which is particularly increased early in the day in non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients because of a circadian drop in insulin sensitivity (dawn phenomenon). Finally, in chronic administration, all sulfonamides cause a progressive desensitisation of the beta cell, which responds by an insulin secretion peak only during food intake. This condition indicates the unuselessness of sulfonamide fractionation and, contrary to the classic notion, the low risk of hypoglycaemia after a meal is skipped. The ideal product would be a sulfonamide with high potency and an ultra-short half-life, but capable of maintaining plasma concentrations for 24 h (which might seem incompatible except in continuous administration). Moreover, it would exert its action at relatively low levels of insulinaemia and be completely metabolisable. Glipizide in its osmotic oral form (Ozidia) satisfies all these conditions since it is a very potent sulfonamide with a quite short half-life but with intestinal delivery up to 16 h after administration because of its osmotic principle. It controls fasting glycaema better than ordinary glipizide and at least as well as glibenclamide by acting on hepatic glucose production. Compared to glibenclamide, it has the advantage of generation this effect at lower levels of insulinaemia. In comparison with normal glipizide, it allows identical control for lower postprandial inslinaemias, which is proof of its powerful inductive effect on insulin sensitivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9469681
To investigate glyburide pharmacokinetics in patients with well-controlled noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), and test the hypothesis that intersubject variability in the glyburide dose is due to patient differences in the drug's pharmacokinetics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9492120
This study presents the characteristics of 20 children (17 female) with NIDDM who required oral hypoglycemic agent (OHA) therapy. A family history of NIDDM was present in 55%. None had islet cell antibodies (ICA) or glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies. Tolbutamide was the drug of choice; glibenclamide was introduced if glycemic control was not obtained after 2 to 3 months of tolbutamide therapy. Seven of the patients eventually required insulin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9517374
In circulating lymphocytes of NIDDM patients pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), the major determinant in glucose consumption through oxidative pathways, is poorly active. The aim of this study is to examine whether sulphonylurea drug treatment revives PDH activity in circulating lymphocytes from NIDDM patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9519749
Picotamide both inhibits thromboxane synthetase and acts as a thromboxane antagonist at the receptor level. We investigated the long-term effect of picotamide on urinary albumin excretion (UAE) at rest and induced by exercise in 30 type 2 diabetic patients who were normotensive and had microalbuminuria while at rest. The subjects of our study had a mean age of 52.5 +/- 1.6 years, BMI of 28.5 +/- 0.7 kg/m2, diabetes duration of 9.1 +/- 1.8 years, and HbA1c of 7.0 +/- 0.8%. The study was a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial. The patients were randomly allocated to receive for 1 year either picotamide, 300 mg, 3 tablets/day, or placebo, 3 tablets/day. The patients were asked to visit our outpatient clinic after 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months of treatment. At all times, blood pressure, microalbuminuria at rest, blood glucose, serum creatinine, serum picotamide, and creatinine clearance were measured; at baseline and after 6 and 12 months, all patients underwent submaximal physical exercise. After 6 months of picotamide, baseline and exercise-induced microalbuminuria were significantly decreased (up to one-third) as compared with the baseline and placebo level, with no further drops at month 12 of picotamide treatment. On placebo treatment, UAE at rest and after exercise was slightly increased compared with baseline values. The effects of picotamide occurred without significant side effects or changes in either blood pressure levels or glycometabolic control. Our study is the first long-term intervention trial in type 2 diabetes showing that an antithromboxane agent is able to decrease microalbuminuria, which in this disease is a dual marker of macro- and microangiopathy. Our findings suggest an important role for thromboxane in the pathophysiology of microalbuminuria in diabetes; moreover, we hypothesize that antithromboxane agents may have a place in the treatment/prevention of both macro- and microvascular complications in type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9533980
Sulphonylureas have remained the mainstay of oral therapy for type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). They stimulate insulin release from pancreatic beta cells. Pharmacokinetic differences between the various sulphonylureas are of clinical importance in terms of the time to onset of action, timing of drug administration in relation to food intake, magnitude and duration of the glucose-lowering effect and the risk of serious hypoglycaemia. Recent studies with improved analytical sensitivity have shown that the elimination half-life of glibenclamide is longer than previously thought and that 2 metabolites of glibenclamide have significant hypoglycaemic activity. Furthermore, single dose studies in healthy volunteers using an integrated pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model have identified clear concentration-effect relationships for both glibenclamide and its metabolites after oral and intravenous administration. Under multiple dose conditions, kinetic-dynamic relations have been identified with shorter-acting drugs in dosages that give discontinuous sulphonylurea exposure. However, at continuous exposure, i.e. sustained 24-hour therapeutic concentrations in plasma, there is evidence indicating the development of tolerance, which may be caused by downregulation of beta cell sensitivity. As more sophisticated concentration-effect studies appear, it has become evident that currently recommended maximum daily doses of many sulphonylureas are too high.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9538962
To determine whether an intermittent very-low-calorie diet (VLCD) improves weight loss and glycemic control more than moderate caloric restriction alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9538975
To assess the efficacy over 3 years of the addition of metformin to maximum sulfonylurea therapy in type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9545119
Physical exercise is associated with a fall in serum insulin levels, whereas sulphonylurea administration increases insulin release. To date, the opposing effects of exercise and sulphonylurea administration have not been systematically studied in Type 2 diabetic patients, who are not infrequently treated with sulphonylureas. In this study nine patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus were subjected to four treatments in random order on separate days: (A) endurance exercise after the administration of 3.5 mg glibenclamide; (B) as A but given only 1.75 mg glibenclamide; (C) as A but with placebo; (D) rest and administration of 1.75 mg glibenclamide. Exercise and placebo resulted in only a small decrease in glycaemia. Rest and administration of 1.75 mg glibenclamide led to a moderate but steady fall in blood glucose concentrations. If glibenclamide administration and exercise were combined, blood glucose concentrations declined more markedly. Serum insulin concentrations showed a physiological decrease during exercise and placebo administration. If patients rested after administration of glibenclamide serum insulin levels rose and remained elevated. When exercise and glibenclamide were combined the rise in serum insulin levels was blunted and insulin levels fell once exercise was begun. Thus, exercise attenuates the glibenclamide induced increase in serum insulin in moderately hyperglycaemic Type 2 diabetic patients. Nevertheless, exercise has a substantial hypoglycaemic effect in glibenclamide treated Type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9551006
A model that relates clinical risk factors to subsequent mortality was used to simulate the impact of smoking cessation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9561345
Glimepiride is a sulphonylurea agent that stimulates insulin release from pancreatic beta-cells and may act via extrapancreatic mechanisms. It is administered once daily to patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus in whom glycaemia is not controlled by diet and exercise alone, and may be combined with insulin in patients with secondary sulphonylurea failure. The greatest blood glucose lowering effects of glimepiride occur in the first 4 hours after the dose. Glimepiride has fewer and less severe effects on cardiovascular variables than glibenclamide (glyburide). Pharmacokinetics are mainly unaltered in elderly patients or those with renal or liver disease. Few drug interactions with glimepiride have been documented. In patients with type 2 diabetes, glimepiride has an effective dosage range of 0.5 to 8 mg/day, although there is little difference in efficacy between dosages of 4 and 8 mg/day. Glimepiride was similar in efficacy to glibenclamide and glipizide in 1-year studies. However, glimepiride appears to reduce blood glucose more rapidly than glipizide over the first few weeks of treatment. Glimepiride and gliclazide were compared in patients with good glycaemic control at baseline in a 14-week study that noted no differences between their effects. Glimepiride plus insulin was as effective as insulin plus placebo in helping patients with secondary sulphonylurea failure to reach a fasting blood glucose target level of < or = 7.8 mmol/L, although lower insulin dosages and more rapid effects on glycaemia were seen with glimepiride. Although glimepiride monotherapy was generally well tolerated, hypoglycaemia occurred in 10 to 20% of patients treated for < or = 1 year and > or = 50% of patients receiving concomitant insulin for 6 months. Pooled clinical trial data suggest that glimepiride may have a lower incidence of hypoglycaemia than glibenclamide, particularly in the first month of treatment. Dosage is usually started at 1 mg/day, titrated to glycaemic control at 1- to 2-week intervals to a usual dosage range of 1 to 4 mg/day (maximum 6 mg/day in the UK or 8 mg/day in the US).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9571345
The feasibility study for the VA Cooperative Study on Glycemic Control and Complications in Type 2 Diabetes (VA CSDM) prospectively studied 153 insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes patients, randomized between an intensively treated arm and a standard treatment arm during a mean follow-up of 27 months. The glycemic response to each of the progressive, sequential phases of insulin treatment was assessed, along with the incidence of hypoglycemic reactions and the relative efficacy of different doses of glipizide in combination with fixed doses of insulin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9585393
Secondary failure of plasma glucose control following initial successful response to diet therapy may be due to dietary indiscretion, or to progression of the intrinsic diabetic condition. We report a 10-year prospective natural history study of 432 newly diagnosed diabetic patients aged 40-69 years undertaken to assess the effect of intensive dietary management, where patients were transferred to insulin, or oral hypoglycaemic therapy (tolbutamide, metformin) by predetermined criteria of weight and plasma glucose. Secondary failure to diet therapy occurred in 41 patients in years 2-4, 67 patients in years 5-7, and 51 patients in years 8-10; 173 patients remained on diet alone until death or the end of the study. Continuation on diet alone was associated with a lower ongoing fasting plasma glucose, greater beta-cell function assessed by an oral glucose tolerance test at 6 months, and increasing age. The rate of rise of fasting plasma glucose was inversely related to the duration of successful dietary therapy, but mean weight remained constant in all groups while on diet alone. The ongoing fall in beta-cell function assessed by HOMA modelling closely mirrored the progressive rise in fasting plasma glucose: there was no change in mean insulin sensitivity in any of the groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9585394
Patients with Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus (DM) on sulphonylurea therapy convert to insulin progressively as the sulphonylureas 'fail'. The rate of failure and the features of those who fail have been poorly described. To assess secondary failure rates of sulphonylureas, we report on the responses in 1305 patients with newly diagnosed Type 2 DM randomly allocated to therapy with either chlorpropamide or glibenclamide in the UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS). These patients were initially treated by diet for 3 months and had a fasting plasma glucose > 6 mmol l(-1); mean age 53 (SD 9) years; BMI 26.8 (SD 5.0) kg m(-2); and median fasting plasma glucose 9.1 (7.6-12.5 quartiles) mmol l(-1). If their fasting plasma glucose subsequently rose above 15.0 mmol l(-1), or they developed hyperglycaemic symptoms, additional hypoglycaemic therapy was given: metformin, ultratard insulin, and soluble insulin as required. By 6 years, 44% had required additional therapy. Of those randomized to glibenclamide, 48% required additional therapy by 6 years, compared with 40% of those allocated to chlorpropamide (p < 0.01). Sixty-one per cent, 39%, and 23%, respectively, of patients with fasting plasma glucose > or = 10.0 mmol l(-1), > or = 7.8 mmol l(-1) to < 10.0 mmol l(-1) and < 7.8 mmol l(-1) at randomization required additional therapy (p < 0.001). In the initial 3 years, non-obese subjects (BMI < 30 kg m(-2)) were more likely to require additional therapy than obese patients (BMI > or = 30 kg m(-2)) (43% vs 53% at 6 years; p < 0.001). Modelled beta-cell function showed that those with lower function were more likely to fail (p < 0.0001). Thus sulphonylureas fail as a therapeutic agent at rates which are dependent both on the phenotype at presentation and perhaps on the agent used initially. Higher failure rates were found in those with higher glucose concentrations, those who were younger, those with lower beta-cell reserve and those randomized to glibenclamide compared with chlorpropamide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9589224
Hypomagnesemia occurs in 25-38% of patients with type 2 diabetes. Several studies have suggested an association between magnesium (Mg) depletion and insulin resistance and/or reduction of insulin secretion in these cases. Our purpose was to evaluate if Mg supplementation (as magnesium oxide [MgO]) would improve metabolic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9589246
Amylin, a secretory peptide of beta-cells, is the constituent peptide of islet amyloid, which is characteristic of NIDDM, and changes in amylin secretion in response to therapies may influence the rate of production of islet amyloid. The primary objective of this study was to determine whether therapy with sulfonylurea or basal insulin in NIDDM would alter amylin secretion in a way that might affect the formation of islet amyloid.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9594432
The aim of this study was to evaluate conjugated dienes in subjects with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and its metabolic control. To achieve good metabolic control in addition to dietary management oral hypoglycemic agents such as glibenclamide, gliclazide and metformin were given to patients. Human plasma low-density lipoproteins (LDL) were delipidised and triglycerides (LDL-TG) and cholesterol esters (LDL-CE) were separated. Conjugated dienes in LDL-TG and LDL-CE of subjects with NIDDM (n = 90) and normal glucose tolerance (NGT) (n = 30) were measured using second derivative of uv absorption spectrum. Hypoglycemic agents lowered substantially concentration of cis, trans (c, t) and trans, trans (t, t) conjugated dienes in LDL-CE and LDL-TG. The duration of NIDDM has shown significant correlation (p < 0.001) with conjugated dienes in LDL-TG. Concentration of c, t and t, t-conjugated dienes in LDL-CE and LDL-TG were found significantly higher in subjects with NIDDM than NGT (p < 0.001). In conclusion, NIDDM, status of metabolic control and duration of diabetes have strong positive relation with oxidative stress.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9623011
This study evaluated the efficacy of acarbose in improvement of metabolic control in patients with fairly, well controlled non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Fifteen patients with mean age and duration of diabetes of 57.5 +/- 2.6 (SE) and 7.5 +/- 1.5 years, respectively were recruited and completed our study protocol. This study was a double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled design consisting of two twelve-week treatments of acarbose and placebo separated by an eight-week washout period. Acarbose was effective in lowering of 1-hour and 2-hour postprandial plasma glucose from 251.7 +/- 10.7 and 205.3 +/- 9.1 mg/dl to 197.4 +/- 7.0 (p = 0.001) and 181.5 +/- 8.5 mg/dl (p = 0.03), respectively. Fasting plasma glucose was slightly decreased but without significant change, from 150.8 +/- 7.3 to 140.8 +/- 6.1 mg/dl (p = 0.07). Overall glycemic control tended to improve during the study period as indicated by the falling of HbA1c levels from 7.7 +/- 0.4 to 7.0 +/- 0.2 per cent (p = 0.05). Serum C-peptide both fasting and postprandial as well as serum lipids were not affected by acarbose. Almost half of the patients treated with acarbose had mild and tolerable gastrointestinal adverse effects. In conclusion, acarbose, as combined therapy with other oral hypoglycemic agents, was effective in improvement of glycemic control particularly postprandial hyperglycemia in fairly, well controlled NIDDM patients with mild and acceptable adverse effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9653594
This study tested a simple algorithm for beginning insulin for obese patients with type 2 diabetes after sulfonylurea failure, comparing suppertime 70/30 insulin plus continued glimepiride with insulin alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9653611
To determine the efficacy of acarbose, compared with placebo, on the metabolic control of NIDDM patients inadequately controlled on maximal doses of conventional oral agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9685916
Whether a rapid elevation of serum gliclazide concentration in human subjects can be achieved through an acceleration of dissolution of gliclazide from a formulation was examined. A soft gelatin capsule containing PEG 400, PEG 4000, Tween 20 and glycerin was prepared as a formulation that may accelerate dissolution of gliclazide. The in vitro dissolution of gliclazide at pH 7.2 was identical for the soft capsule and conventional tablets, Diamicron and Diberin. However, at pH 1, 2 and 4.0 the dissolution from the soft capsule was more rapid compared to the tablets. When bioavailability parameters were compared following oral administration of the soft capsule and Diamicron to 16 healthy Korean male subjects, the parameters representing the amount of adsorption (i.e. the area under the serum gliclazide concentration vs. time curve up to 24 h, AUC24, and the peak serum concentration Cmax) were not statistically different for both formulations. However, the time required to reach the peak (Tmax) was significantly shorter for the soft capsule than for the Diamicron. Our results, therefore, indicate that a rapid elevation of serum gliclazide concentration following oral administration of a formulation can be achieved by accelerating the in vitro dissolution of gliclazide from the formulation into the acidic buffers. Thus, the rate of gastrointestinal absorption of gliclazide appears to be dependent on its in vivo dissolution rate in gastric fluid. A soft capsule containing a PEG 400 suspension of gliclazide appears to be an appropriate formulation for accelerating the dissolution.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9702426
To determine whether diabetes defined by isolated postchallenge hyperglycemia (IPH) (2-h postchallenge plasma glucose > or = 11.1 mmol/l with fasting plasma glucose [FPG] < 7.0 mmol/l) increases the risk of fatal cardiovascular disease (CVD) in older women and men.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9702849
This multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study of glimepiride, a new oral sulfonylurea, was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes for whom dietary treatment was unsuccessful (fasting plasma glucose [FPG] = 151-300 mg/dL) during a 1-week screening period. Patients were randomized to receive glimepiride (n = 123) or placebo (n = 126) once daily for a 10-week dose-titration period, then maintained on an individually determined optimal dose (1-8 mg of glimepiride or placebo) for 12 weeks. Glimepiride lowered FPG by 46 mg/dL, hemoglobin A1C (HbA1C) by 1.4%, and 2-hour postprandial glucose by 72 mg/dL more than placebo. Glimepiride improved postprandial insulin and C-peptide responses without producing clinically meaningful increases in fasting insulin or C-peptide levels. Good glycemic control (HbA1C < or = 7.2%) was achieved by 69% of the patients taking glimepiride versus 32% of those taking placebo. The overall incidence of adverse events was similar in both groups. No clinically noteworthy abnormal laboratory values or hypoglycemia (blood glucose < 60 mg/dL) occurred. Glimepiride is safe and effective for treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes for whom diet therapy is unsuccessful.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9727892
To determine if the combination of troglitazone (a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma activator) and sulfonylurea will provide efficacy not attainable by either medication alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9732337
To determine whether tight control of blood pressure prevents macrovascular and microvascular complications in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9739505
Repaglinide is a novel insulin secretagogue being developed for the management of type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. It stimulates release of insulin from the pancreatic beta-cell, but appears to bind to a different receptor site from sulphonylureas. Repaglinide lowers fasting and postprandial blood glucose levels in animals, healthy volunteers and patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Repaglinide is rapidly absorbed and eliminated, which may allow a relatively fast onset and offset of action. Excretion occurs almost entirely by non-renal mechanisms. In comparative clinical trials in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, repaglinide 0.5 to 4 mg twice or 3 times daily before meals provided similar glycaemic control to glibenclamide (glyburide) 2.5 to 15 mg/day. Addition of repaglinide to existing metformin therapy resulted in improved glycaemic control. In contrast with glibenclamide, use of repaglinide allowed patients to miss a meal without apparently increasing the risk of hypoglycaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9742976
Improved blood-glucose control decreases the progression of diabetic microvascular disease, but the effect on macrovascular complications is unknown. There is concern that sulphonylureas may increase cardiovascular mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes and that high insulin concentrations may enhance atheroma formation. We compared the effects of intensive blood-glucose control with either sulphonylurea or insulin and conventional treatment on the risk of microvascular and macrovascular complications in patients with type 2 diabetes in a randomised controlled trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9742977
In patients with type 2 diabetes, intensive blood-glucose control with insulin or sulphonylurea therapy decreases progression of microvascular disease and may also reduce the risk of heart attacks. This study investigated whether intensive glucose control with metformin has any specific advantage or disadvantage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9750481
In the treatment of type 2 diabetes (NIDDM) we possess three groups of oral hypoglycaemic drugs: sulfonyl urea derivatives, biguanides (metformin) and alpha-glucosidase (acarbose) inhibitors. Oral treatment of diabetes has a favourable impact on the patients metabolic deviations but it involves also certain dangers and pitfalls. The side-effects of oral antidiabetics can be reduced to a minimum by respecting consequentially contraindications of administration of different preparations, knowledge of their mechanism of action and individual selection of a suitable antidiabetic for every patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9762378
To review the prospective evidence surrounding the issue of tight glycemic control in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus and resultant long-term complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9789590
The progress of knowledge relating to non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) is associated with new therapeutic developments. Their different respective targets allow to classify them in drugs stimulating insulin secretion (glimepiride, repaglinide, glucagon-like peptide 1), medications reducing insulin resistance (thiazolidinediones) or in insulinmimetic agents (vanadium). Alpha glucosidase inhibitors, available in France since 1993, constitute another therapeutic approach, reducing postprandial hyperglycemia by delaying the digestion of complex carbohydrates. These new medications, safer and sometimes effective in a single daily administration, represent an alternative to classic oral antidiabetic agents allowing therapeutic combinations and a more global management of NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9797183
To compare the effects of chronic glibenclamide therapy and placebo on blood pressure and cardiovascular responsiveness in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9802740
The objective of the study was to assess the efficacy and safety of repaglinide compared with placebo in the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9802745
Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) has glucose-dependent insulinotropic and glucagonostatic actions in type 2 diabetic patients on diet and on oral agents. It is not known, however, whether after secondary sulfonylurea failure, GLP-1 is still effective.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9812648
To asses the efficacy of combination therapy of glibenclamide and Kelening in treating the non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9833950
To assess in vivo effects of antioxidants on vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1 expression, circulating soluble VCAM-1 and intraerythrocytic reduced glutathione (GSH) and GSH disulphide (GSSG) concentrations were evaluated in non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients without complications (9 men, 6 women, 48 +/- 6 years old) before and after 1 month of either oral N-acetyl-L-cysteine (1.200 mg/day) or placebo treatments, given in randomized, cross-over, double-blind fashion. Ten healthy subjects (7 men, 3 women, 52 +/- 4 years old) served as control subjects. Baseline plasma VCAM-1 concentrations were higher (p = 0.007) in non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients (707.9 +/- 52.5 ng/ml) than in control subjects (627.3 +/- 84.6 ng/ml). Intraerythrocytic GSSG content was higher (non-insulin dependent diabetic patients: 0.618 +/- 0.185 micromol/g Hb; control subjects: 0.352 +/- 0.04 micromol/g Hb, p = 0.0002), whereas intraerythrocytic GSH concentrations were lower (p = 0.001) in non-insulin dependent diabetic patients (6.0 +/- 0.7 micromol/g Hb) than in control subjects (7.1 +/- 0.5 micromol/g Hb). The mean GSH:GSSG ratio was also lower (p = 0.0001) in the first (10.9 +/- 4.5) than in the second group (20.2 +/- 1.4). Circulating VCAM-1 and intraerythrocytic GSH concentrations were negatively correlated in non-insulin diabetic patients (r = 0.605, p = 0.01). Treatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine decreased plasma VCAM-1 (p = 0.01) and intraerythrocytic GSSG (p = 0.006) but increased GSH concentrations (p = 0.04) and the GSH:GSSG ratio (p = 0.004) in non-insulin dependent diabetic patients. Our data indicate that the vascular endothelium is activated in non-insulin dependent diabetes. Antioxidant treatment counterbalanced such endothelial activation. Thus, antioxidant agents might protect against oxidant-related upregulation of endothelial adhesion molecules and slow down the progression of vascular damage in non-insulin dependent diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9834926
Recently, two commercial enteral formulae for diabetic patients have been made available in Spain: a high-complex-carbohydrate, low-fat formulation (HCF) and a low-carbohydrate formulation (RCF). This study compares the effects of the two enteral nutritional formulae in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (type 2 diabetes) treated with sulfonylurea or insulin. Fifty-two type 2 diabetes patients were randomly assigned to receive one of the two enteral formulae. Test enteral formula breakfast (250 cc) were consumed at approximately 0900 h after routine medications (insulin or oral agents) had been taken. Venous blood samples were obtained during fasting, before medication, and at 30 and 120 min after the start of the meal. The glycemic response of patients to the HCF was significantly greater than to RCF, but lower than in the sulfonyl type 2 diabetes treated groups. The incremental glucose response was within acceptable levels except in insulin treatment type 2 diabetes patients given HCF. Glucose, insulin, and C-peptide responses were higher in HCF than RCF groups. Two-factor analysis of variance on mean increments of blood glucose and C-peptide from basal levels to 30 min show the type of enteral nutrition as the main factor (P = 0.0010 and P = 0.0005, respectively). The RCF formula supplies 50.0% of energy as fat and 33.3% as carbohydrates, so it may be a ketogenic diet. It was found that both ketone bodies were higher after RCF than after HCF ingestion, but without statistical significance. We conclude that the partial replacement of complex digestible carbohydrates with monounsaturated fatty acids in the enteral formulae for supplementation of oral diet may improve glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. The long-term effects of enteral diets high in monounsaturated fatty acids need further evaluation in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9836523
Intensive insulin treatment of IDDM is associated with increased frequency of hypoglycemic coma. The extent of possible cerebral sequelae after recovery is still unknown. We studied the impact of previous hypoglycemic coma on neurophysiological measures of cognitive brain function in 108 patients with adult-onset IDDM receiving intensive insulin treatment. In the study, 55 IDDM patients (age 38 +/- 14 years, mean +/- SD) who had a history of > or =1 (median 3, range 1-35) comatose hypoglycemic event were compared with 53 IDDM patients (age 34 +/- 12 years) with no history of hypoglycemic events using P300 event-related potentials and psychometric tests (the Mini-Mental State Exam and trailmaking test, part A). Findings on these patients were compared with those from 108 matched healthy control subjects. No difference was observed in P300 latencies and psychometric tests between patients with and without a history of hypoglycemic coma (P300 latency, 346 vs. 342 ms; trailmaking test, 31 vs. 30 s; Mini-Mental State Exam, 29.5 vs. 29.6; NS). In diabetic patients, however, P300 latencies were delayed compared with those of healthy control subjects (344 vs. 332 ms; P < 0.001) and were correlated to diabetes duration but not to total hypoglycemic episodes. Scores on the Mini-Mental State Exam (29.5 vs. 29.6; P = 0.59) and trailmaking test (31 vs. 28 s; P = 0.10) were not different between patients and control subjects. In conclusion, previous episodes of hypoglycemic coma are not associated with permanent impairment of cognitive brain function in patients with adult-onset IDDM receiving intensive insulin treatment compared with patients without such episodes. Cognitive brain function, however, is subclinically impaired in relation to duration of diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9836525
To test the hypothesis that glycemic thresholds for cognitive dysfunction during hypoglycemia, like those for autonomic and symptomatic responses, shift to lower plasma glucose concentrations after recent antecedent hypoglycemia in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM), 15 patients were studied on two occasions. Cognitive functions were assessed during morning hyperinsulinemic stepped hypoglycemic clamps (85, 75, 65, 55, and 45 mg/dl steps) after, in random sequence, nocturnal (2330-0300) hypoglycemia (48 +/- 2 mg/dl) on one occasion and nocturnal euglycemia (109 +/- 1 mg/dl) on the other. Compared with nondiabetic control subjects (n = 12), patients with T1DM had absent glucagon (P = 0.0009) and reduced epinephrine (P = 0.0010), norepinephrine (P = 0.0001), and neurogenic symptom (P = 0.0480) responses to hypoglycemia; the epinephrine (P = 0.0460) and neurogenic symptom (P = 0.0480) responses were reduced further after nocturnal hypoglycemia. After nocturnal hypoglycemia, in contrast to nocturnal euglycemia, there was less deterioration of cognitive function overall (P = 0.0065) during hypoglycemia based on analysis of the sum of standardized scores (z-scores). There was relative preservation of measures of pattern recognition and memory (the delayed non-match to sample task, P = 0.0371) and of attention (the Stroop arrow-word task, P = 0.0395), but not of measures of information processing (the paced serial addition task) or declarative memory (the delayed paragraph recall task), after nocturnal hypoglycemia. Thus, glycemic thresholds for hypoglycemic cognitive dysfunction, like those for autonomic and symptomatic responses to hypoglycemia, shift to lower plasma glucose concentrations after recent antecedent hypoglycemia in patients with T1DM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9853636
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9881243
Insulin treatment is reportedly associated with the transient progression of retinopathy, possibly with the development of macular oedema in middle-aged Type 2 diabetic patients. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of insulin treatment on eye-grounds in elderly (> 65-year-old) Type 2 diabetic patients with secondary failure of oral antidiabetic-drug therapy. Eye examinations were performed in 37 patients randomized to insulin (n = 19) or sulphonylurea (n = 16) treatment and re-investigated after one year. Insulin treatment reduced HbA1c from 9.3% to 7.3% (p < 0.001) after one year. In the sulphonylurea-treated group, HbA1c did not change (9.1 vs. 9.3%). At the start, 65% of the patients had retinopathy, and after one year progression was noted in 7/35 patients (20%; 5 insulin- and 2 sulphonylurea-treated). In the insulin-treated group, the 5 patients with progression had higher initial fasting blood-glucose levels than other patients in the group (15.8 vs 13.1 mmol/L, p < 0.05). Initial HbA1c levels did not differ between the groups (9.8 vs. 9.1%, n.s.), nor the reduction of HbA1c levels during treatment (2.2 vs. 1.3% n.s.). Thus, diabetic retinopathy in this study was common among elderly Type 2 diabetic patients. The progression of retinopathy may in fact be associated with insulin treatment or improvement of metabolic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9932219
Seven obese Type 2 diabetic patients were studied for two 4-h periods after ingestion of a glucose load to determine the effects of preprandial subcutaneous injection of Insulin Lispro (5 min before the meal) or regular insulin (20 min before the meal) on glucose metabolism. Glucose production and utilisation were measured using a dual isotope method. After Lispro, the mean postprandial increase in plasma glucose was 29% lower and the increase in insulin concentration 25% higher than after regular insulin (p < 0.05). Suppression of endogenous glucose production was similar with both types of insulin. Thus, preprandial injection of Lispro reduced postprandial glucose increments in Type 2 diabetic patients as compared to regular insulin. This effect is best explained by the increased postprandial bioavailability of Lispro.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9972673
The treatment of NIDDM patients with secondary failure to sulphonylurea is a common problem. We performed a crossover study in 50 NIDDM patients with secondary failure to glibenclamide by comparing the addition to sulphonylurea of either a low-dose bedtime NPH insulin or a t.i.d. oral metformin and by analyzing treatment efficacy in relation to patient and disease characteristics. Both combined therapies clearly improved glycaemic control. HbA1 c were similarly reduced by the addition of either bedtime NPH insulin (7.6+/-0.34 vs 8.7+/-0.35, p<0.01) or metformin (7.6+/-0.22 vs 8.6+/-0.31, p<0.01). Also fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and post-prandial plasma glucose (PPPG) significantly decreased (p<0.01) with both treatments. Bed-time NPH insulin was more effective on FPG reduction than metformin (-36+/-2% vs -25+/-2%, p<0.01); in contrast, metformin addition was more effective on PPPG reduction than bedtime NPH insulin addition (-30+/-2% vs 20+/-3%, p<0.01). Serum cholesterol was marginally but significantly decreased after metformin (5.49+/-0.19 vs 5.91 +/-0.18 mM, p<0.05) but not after NPH insulin. Body weight increase was significantly greater after insulin addition than after metformin (1.47+/-0.25 Kg vs 0.64+/-0.17 p=0.02). All patients preferred the addition of metformin rather than NPH insulin. None of the measured clinical and metabolic variables (before treatment FPG and PPPG, HbA1 c, post-glucagon C-peptide levels, insulin sensitivity, patient age, BMI and diabetes duration) significantly correlated to the efficacy of the two combined treatments studied. In conclusion, in NIDDM patients with secondary failure to sulphonylureas the addition of either low-dose bedtime NPH insulin or t.i.d. metformin is similarly effective in improving glycaemic control. Metformin is better accepted by patients and provides a modest advantage in terms of body weight and cholesterol levels. The most common clinical and metabolic variables are not useful for predicting the efficacy of these two combined treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9989540
Hypoglycemic coma is a continuous threat for diabetic patients treated with insulin and/or oral hypoglycemic agents; it may be associated with substantial morbidity and mortality.
