
Abstract for pubmed ID 10023901
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10024335
Hypercholesterolemia and hypertension are frequently associated with elevated sympathetic activity. Both are independent cardiovascular risk factors and both affect endothelium-mediated vasodilation. To identify the effects of cholesterol-lowering and antihypertensive treatments on vascular reactivity and vasodilative capacity, we studied 30 hypercholesterolemic hypertensive subjects. They received placebo for 4 weeks, either enalapril or simvastatin for 14 weeks, and, finally, both medications for an additional 14 weeks. Postischemic forearm blood flow (MFBF) and minimal vascular resistance (mFVR) were used as indices of vasodilative capacity and structural vascular damage, respectively. Total (resting-stress-recovery phases) cardiovascular (blood pressure [BP] and heart rate [HR]) and regional hemodynamic (FBF and FVR) reactivity to stressful stimuli were calculated as area-under-the-curve (auc) (valuextime). Compared with baseline levels, simvastatin reduced total (TOT-C) and LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) (1.27 mmol/L, P<0.001 and 1.33 mmol/L, P<0.001, respectively). Enalapril also reduced TOT-C and LDL-C (0.6 mmol/L, P<0.001 and 0.58 mmol/L, P<0.05, respectively). MFBF was increased substantially by both treatments (P<0.001). Enalapril had a greater effect (-1.7 arbitrary units (AU), P<0.001) than simvastatin (-0.6 AU, P<0.05) on mFVR. During stress, FBF increased more with enalapril (4.4 FBFxminutes, P<0.001) than with simvastatin (1.8 FBFxminutes, P<0.01). Conversely, FVR stress response was reduced more with enalapril (9.1 FVRxminutes, P<0.001) than with simvastatin (2.9 FVRxminutes, P<0.01). During combination treatment, a significant (0.001>P<0.05) additive effect on hypercholesterolemia, structural vascular damage, BP, and FVR was shown. The findings suggest that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition induces a larger reduction than HMG-CoA reductase blockade in vascular reactivity and structural damage in hypercholesterolemic hypertensive subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10026704
The increased risk of cardiovascular disease in diabetic patients is well documented. A greater appreciation for the importance of this fact and regular use of secondary prevention strategies, including aggressive use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors or other lipid-lowering agents to reduce cholesterol levels, are clearly indicated for diabetic patients with CAD. If no contraindications exist, ACE inhibitors, beta blockers, and aspirin also should be considered for these high-risk patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10027660
To determine the effects of itraconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, on the pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin, a competitive 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10037456
We investigated the protective effect of fluvastatin sodium on the oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) induced in vitro by copper ions. The extent of lipid peroxidation was assessed by monitoring the increase of UV absorbance at 234 nm, which is the peak absorbance of a conjugated diene. Fluvastatin sodium (1-30 microM) not only prolonged the lag time of oxidation in the initiation step, but also decreased the rate of oxidation in the propagation step, both concentration dependently. Fluvastatin sodium and alpha-tocopherol showed an additive effect when both compounds were added before oxidation. However, when the lag time was prolonged initially by alpha-tocopherol, and fluvastatin sodium and alpha-tocopherol, were further added into the reaction mixture at the end point of the lag phase, fluvastatin sodium still showed an antioxidative effect, whereas alpha-tocopherol showed a pro-oxidative effect. Therefore, the antioxidative property of fluvastatin sodium differs from that of alpha-tocopherol. In this experiment, as neither the double bond-reduced derivative of fluvastatin sodium nor pravastatin sodium showed any protective effect, we concluded that the antioxidative effect of fluvastatin sodium is not a common property of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, but may be derived from its unique chemical structure. Since the oxidative modification of LDL plays an important role in the genesis of atherosclerosis, fluvastatin sodium may help reduce the risk of atherosclerosis, not only by reducing plasma LDL levels but also by protecting LDL from oxidative modification.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10037537
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10047626
The HMG CoA reductase inhibitors have quickly become the most widely prescribed family of agents for the treatment of patients with elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. The incidence of side effects with these agents increases as the dose increases within the recommended dosage range. A lower dosage presumably would have a lower incidence of adverse effects. In addition, lower doses should translate into reduced drug costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10048703
Tinea capitis has become an increasing public health concern in the last decade. The increased incidence of the disease; its sometimes subtle, nonspecific clinical presentation; and the development of tolerance to griseofulvin therapy have led to the need for alternative safe, efficacious, inexpensive therapies that work rapidly. Itraconazole, fluconazole and terbinafine all possess pharmacologic and pharmacokinetic characteristics that theoretically would make them ideal therapies for tinea capitis. However, few randomized double blind controlled studies using these agents have been published. Thus far none have been conducted in the United States. The best available data support the utility and safety of the new antifungals in the treatment of tinea capitis. However, one must keep in mind that they are not yet approved by the Food and Drug Administration for this indication. Safety and cost considerations favor terbinafine for the treatment of T. tonsurans infections. M. canis infections may respond better to itraconazole, but good controlled studies to confirm this speculation have not been conducted. Short course and pulse dosing are particularly exciting options that may decrease cost and lower the risk of adverse side effects. Further useful information will hopefully come from future randomized double blind studies that will include patients from the United States. Studies using standardized definitions of disease, cure and appropriate follow-up evaluation of clinical and mycologic cure will best identify the optimal therapy for pediatric tinea capitis infections. The new systemic antifungals may provide more therapeutic options for fungal infections of the scalp. Note added in proof A recent trial comparing short course terbinafine and intraconazole therapy demonstrated that 2-week therapy with either drug provided good results and high cure rates (Jahangir M, et al. Br J Dermatol 1998;139:672-4).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10069684
Previous studies suggested that certain lipid-lowering drugs such as statins suppress ubiquinone, affect mitochondrial function, and may have deleterious effect on skeletal or cardiac muscles with potentially serious clinical consequences, especially in patients with established coronary heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction. In this double-blind study, we assessed the effects of 20 mg simvastatin (S, n = 32) or 200 mg micronized fenofibrate (F, n = 32, control group) on rest and exercise left ventricular function in hypercholesterolemic survivors of a previous Q-wave acute myocardial infarction. Left ventricular radionuclide imaging was performed at rest and during submaximal exercise and global and segmental (nine segment regional wall-motion score) ejection fractions were measured before treatment and 12 weeks later. Serum ubiquinone was reduced after treatment (p = 0.03) in the S but not the F group, whereas total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol were significantly reduced in both groups. Before treatment, mean global ejection fraction was 52.1+/-12.2% and 49.3+/-11.8% at rest in F and S patients, respectively, and increased (56.0+/-13.7% in F and 52.1+/-12.9% in S) at peak exercise (no difference between groups). After treatment, the increase in ejection fraction tended to be lower in S (0) than in F (+3.8%) but not significantly. However, ejection fraction at rest increased after treatment in S (p = 0.009) but not in F. Subgroup analyses indicated that the improvement in rest ejection fraction in S was essentially observed in patients with ejection fraction <40% (n = 8, +6%), whereas it was stable in patients with ejection fraction >40% (+1.8%). Finally, the numbers of akinetic or hypokinetic segments at rest and during exercise were not different in the two groups before and after treatment. Mean maximal exercise load (113+/-23 watts in F vs. 104+/-27 W in S before treatment) was not modified by the treatment (111+/-21 and 104+/-27 W). Thus a 12-week lipid-lowering treatment with either S or F did not negatively alter left ventricular function during exercise in dyslipidemic patients with established coronary heart disease and did not affect their ability to exercise. The improvement in left ventricular function at rest after simvastatin in patients with left ventricular dysfunction warrants confirmation in further studies with large sample size.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10073746
Because of the importance of treating dyslipidaemia in the prevention of ischaemic heart disease and because patient selection criteria and outcomes in clinical trials do not necessarily reflect what happens in normal clinical practice, we compared outcomes from bezafibrate, gemfibrozil and simvastatin therapy under conditions of normal use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10073863
The primary objectives of the pilot study were to: (1) evaluate the feasibility of recruiting patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD); (2) measure the efficacy and safety of high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-raising treatment, low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-lowering therapy, antioxidant therapy, antithrombotic therapy, and their combinations; and (3) assess adherence to a complex multiple drug regimen. Secondary objectives included measurement of the effect of the interventions on prespecified biochemical markers, maintenance of therapy masking (in particular with niacin), and measurement of the intervention's impact on functional status and on quality of life. To date, no secondary prevention trial has been conducted specifically among patients with PAD. Intermittent claudication affects about 0.5% to 1.0% of persons aged >35 years. There is a striking increase in incidence of PAD with age, particularly among those aged >50 years in both sexes, although men are twice as likely as women to develop PAD. The Arterial Disease Multiple Intervention Trial was a double-blind randomized pilot trial of 468 participants with documented PAD. A 2 x 2 x 2 factorial design was used to evaluate the effect of 3 interventions. The pilot incorporated several major novel design features: first, the use of a simple noninvasive method (measurement of ankle brachial index) to identify a population with either symptomatic or asymptomatic PAD; and second, a lipid modifying strategy to increase HDL with nicotinic acid in the intervention group while lowering LDL levels equally with an hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor as needed in the intervention and control group. Two other arms, the antioxidant arm (consisting of beta-carotene and vitamins E and C) and the antithrombotic arm (using warfarin) were also added. Adherence to therapy was measured by pill count, and success in treatment was measured by the proportion of values in target range for HDL, LDL, and the international normalized ratio.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10075142
The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors competitively inhibit biosynthesis of mevalonate, a precursor of non-sterol compounds involved in cell proliferation. Experimental evidence suggests that fluvastatin may, independent of any lipid lowering action, exert a greater direct inhibitory effect on proliferating vascular myocytes than other statins. The FLARE (Fluvastatin Angioplasty Restenosis) Trial was conceived to evaluate the ability of fluvastatin 40 mg twice daily to reduce restenosis after successful coronary balloon angioplasty (PTCA).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10075395
The role of calcium in clinical hypertension can be best understood by a hierarchical model in which the blood pressure effects of a dietary signal depend on alterations of hormonal systems specific for that signal. These alterations mediate both the cellular recognition of these signals as well as the resultant clinical responses to them. In the case of both dietary calcium and dietary salt, these systems appear to include calcium regulating hormones having direct, calcium-dependent vasoactive properties, and which are linked to the activity of the renin-angiotensin system. Altered salt and calcium intake exert reciprocal linked effects on these hormone systems and on blood pressure. These reflect altered cellular calcium uptake from the extracellular space, salt-induced calcium hormones stimulating and calcium-induced suppression of these hormones inhibiting extracellular calcium uptake. Among normotensive individuals, this is associated with a reciprocal calcium-dependent suppression or stimulation of renin secretion, respectively, resulting in an offsetting decreased or increased angiotensin II-mediated release of calcium into the cytoplasm from intracellular stores. Hence, no significant change in cytosolic free calcium or, consequently, in blood pressure usually results from increasing or decreasing dietary salt or calcium intake. However, whether due to genetic or other environmental factors as yet undefined, the metabolic "set point" of plasma renin activity in some subjects is already suppressed, or, alternatively, is unresponsive to the above hormonally mediated dietary mineral variations. Under these circumstances, increases in dietary salt will cause cytosolic free calcium and thus blood pressure to rise, whereas increased dietary calcium in these very same "salt-sensitive" subjects will offset the effect of salt, and lower pressure in these individuals. This analysis suggests that although increasing oral calcium intake to achieve at least current nutritional standards is entirely appropriate, uniform recommendations for all hypertensives to further increase or decrease dietary calcium or salt may be inappropriate and will obscure those for whom these maneuvers are particularly relevant.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10075964
Stimulated bile acid synthesis preferentially utilises newly synthesised cholesterol, raising the possibility that combination of simvastatin (an inhibitor of cholesterol synthesis) with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA; a stimulator of bile acid synthesis) may result in reduced bile acid synthesis and greater enrichment of the pool with UDCA than that achieved with UDCA treatment alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10080498
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10081301
The LIPID study is a placebo-controlled, double-bind, randomized trial, performed in 9014 patients with coronary heart disease and total cholesterol levels of 155 to 271 mg/dl. After a mean follow-up of 6.1 years, patients receiving pravastatin (40 mg/day) had significantly (p < 0.001) lower death rate from coronary heart disease (24%), lower overall mortality (22%) and lower incidence of all cardiovascular outcomes (20 to 29% depending on the event). Interestingly enough, the reduction in death from coronary heart disease or nonfatal myocardial infarction was observed whatever the initial cholesterol concentration, and already significant if total cholesterol was < 213 mg/dl and LDL cholesterol was < 135 mg/dl. Thus, in secondary prevention, the favourable effect of the statin on the coronary heart disease outcomes is observed even in case of initial cholesterol levels yet considered as "normal".

Abstract for pubmed ID 10082999
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10083575
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10083765
Insulin resistance is associated with hypertriglyceridemia, low serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) concentrations and high serum total cholesterol (TC) to HDL-C ratios. Several reports have demonstrated that either lovastatin or gemfibrozil may favorably lower serum lipid concentrations. However, their effects on insulin sensitivity are unknown. The primary aim of this study was to compare the effects of lovastatin and gemfibrozil on insulin sensitivity and serum leptin concentrations in subjects with high TC/HDL-C ratios. We enrolled 25 nondiabetic patients, similar in terms of age and weight with TC/HDL-C ratios greater than 5. Thirteen subjects were treated with lovastatin 20 mg per day, and 12 received gemfibrozil 300 mg twice per day. Plasma lipids, glucose, and leptin were measured, and a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and a modified insulin suppression test were performed before and after 3 months of treatment. The study showed the mean plasma TC, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations, and TC/HDL-C ratio were significantly reduced in the lovastatin-treated group, but no obvious effects on plasma triglyceride (TG) and HDL-C were noted. In the gemfibrozil group, plasma TG and HDL-C were markedly lowered, but no significantly different effects in other plasma lipids were found. Gemfibrozil did not affect steady-state plasma glucose (SSPG) concentrations, whereas lovastatin significantly increased SSPG concentrations. Neither drug affected the serum leptin concentration during the OGTT. We conclude that lovastatin significantly lowers plasma TC and LDL-C ratio, and TC/HDL-C concentrations and adversely affects insulin sensitivity, while gemfibrozil markedly reduces plasma TG concentrations without altering insulin sensitivity in subjects with high TC/HDL-C ratios.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10085441
Effective prevention, or treatment, of invasive fungal infection in the neutropenic patient has hitherto been unsatisfactory because of either an inadequate anti-fungal spectrum of the agent or important toxicity. Itraconazole is effective against a broad spectrum of the opportunistic pathogens seen in Europe and North America. Prior problems with absorption, e.g. in the marrow transplant recipient, have been overcome with the introduction of an oral solution and an i.v. preparation. The deliberations of an expert meeting held in June, 1998 include recommendations on which patient requires one of these new preparations based on clinical trials, the dose and route. Important drug interactions are also detailed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10090113
To forecast adult patient outcomes in the management of hyperlipidemia using adult National Health and Examination Survey III (NHANES III) population statistics and National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) guidelines for goals of therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10090116
To forecast the long-term benefits and cost-effectiveness of lipid modification in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10091815
The purpose of the study was to assess the effect of lipid reduction with pravastatin on hospital admissions in middle-aged men with hypercholesterolemia in the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10093013
The plasma LDL concentration in firmly established as a cause of coronary heart disease. However, the efficacy of LDL lowering may reach a limit when it is brought well below average during treatment. The Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE) trial compared pravastatin and placebo in patients who had experienced myocardial infarction who had average concentrations of total cholesterol < 240 mg/dl (baseline mean 209 mg/dl) and LDL cholesterol (LDL) 115 to 174 mg/dl (mean 139 mg/dl). Pravastatin reduced coronary death or recurrent myocardial infarction by 24%. In multivariate analysis, the LDL concentration achieved during follow-up was a significant predictor of the coronary event rate. The relationship was nonlinear since the coronary event rate declined as LDL decreased during follow-up from 174 to approximately 125 mg/dl, but no further decline was seen in the LDL range from 125 to 71 mg/dl. A major ongoing effort in the CARE trial concerns the identification of non-LDL mediated mechanisms of coronary events. Chronic low-grade inflammation has recently been identified as an important new risk factor for coronary artery disease. Two markers of inflammation, C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum amyloid A (SAA), were measured in patients in the CARE trial who suffered a recurrent myocardial infarction or coronary death and in those who did not have these recurrent events. Levels of both inflammatory markers were significantly higher among post-myocardial infarction patients who subsequently developed recurrent coronary events. This association was significant in the patients who were treated with placebo but not in those in the pravastatin group. In conclusion, attaining an LDL of < 125 mg/dl may be sufficient treatment of LDL concentrations, removing the adverse effect of LDL on coronary events. These findings also raise the possibility that the efficacy of pravastatin may partly result from anti-inflammatory as well as lipid lowering properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10095181
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10095800
The effects of atorvastatin, a new synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, were investigated in patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH), with high LDLc levels whilst on standard treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10095816
Atorvastatin is a new potent HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. We evaluated whether patients with coronary heart disease and severe hypercholesterolaemia showing insufficient LDL (low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol reduction despite combined therapy with simvastatin and regular LDL apheresis will benefit from atorvastatin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10099070
The efficacy and safety of fluvastatin in patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia was evaluated in this open-label, multicenter trial. Patients whose cholesterol did not meet National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines after an 8-week dietary stabilization period underwent a 12-week treatment period. The study population was 1776 patients ranging in age from 18 to 75 years with an average low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level for two visits of 160 to 200 mg/dL. For all patients, the mean serum level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol showed a decrease of 21% between baseline and week 12 (177.8 +/- 19.0 to 141.0 +/- 22.7 mg/dL). Total cholesterol decreased 14% (263.3 +/- 24.3 to 224.2 +/- 12.9 mg/dL). Triglycerides decreased 14% (183.7 +/- 82.3 to 158.0 +/- 70.1 mg/dL). High-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels increased only slightly (49.7 +/- 12.1 to 51.8 +/- 12.9 mg/dL). Therapy with fluvastatin resulted in few adverse effects. No patient terminated the study prematurely because of laboratory abnormalities, although laboratory values of concern occurred in 0.3% of patients regarding serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and in 0.07% regarding creatine phosphokinase. Fluvastatin is confirmed as effective and safe for the treatment of moderate hypercholesterolemia in the general-practice patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10146336
LDL-cholesterol is the leading risk factor which influences the clinical outcome of patients with preexisting coronary heart disease. Clinical trials show that plasma LDL-cholesterol below 100 mg/dL decrease the rate of recurrent myocardial infarction and can induce regression in patients with coronary heart disease. However, in most cases of severe hypercholesterolemia with plasma LDL-cholesterol concentrations above 220 mg/dL LDL cannot be sufficiently decreased by maximal dietary and pharmacological therapy alone. Today this group of high risk CHD patients can be treated in addition with an extracorporeal procedure to eliminate LDL from the plasma circulation, the H.E.L.P.--LDL-apheresis. This method for selective removal of LDL, lipoprotein(a) and fibrinogen from plasma has been shown to be a clinically safe and very efficient method for the treatment of patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or CHD patients with severe hypercholesterolemia. Treatments with 1 week H.E.L.P. intervals revealed a mean reduction of minus 51% for LDL, of minus 45% for Lp(a) and of minus 46% for apo B, while HDL was increased by +12%. Fibrinogen was decreased by minus 46%. Besides the marked reduction of LDL and fibrinogen plasma concentrations the H.E.L.P. treatment significantly improves hemorheological parameters and increases the oxygen tension in the tissue. We have also investigated the efficiency of a combined therapy, using HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors together with the H.E.L.P.--apheresis. Under this combined treatment, a reduction of the interval LDL-cholesterol levels of 70-80% has been achieved, while Lp(a) and fibrinogen were not further affected. We now report about our long-term clinical experience with the H.E.L.P. system in treating patients with different lipoprotein disorders: (1) Homozygous form of familial hypercholesterolemia; (2) CHD patients with familial and non-familial hypercholesterolemia; (3) CHD patients with very high concentrations of lipoprotein(a); and (4) Hypercholesterolemic patients after heart transplantation. Based on present experience guidelines for secondary prevention of coronary heart disease indications for the H.E.L.P.--LDL-apheresis treatment are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10146648
Two girls with familial hypercholesterolemia were treated for 7 years by plasma exchanges (PE) or LDL-apheresis (LA). We compared different methods of treatment; PE with or without reuse of the plasma separator, LA of varying frequency, and LA with or without oral administration of simvastatin. We assessed the long-term results by measuring the blood levels of the biochemical parameters before sessions, and determined the effectiveness of each session by the percentage of decrease in the blood levels between the beginning and the end of the sessions. LA led to a more selective treatment (lowering of LDL cholesterol and maintenance of HDL cholesterol), but the blood levels of total cholesterol before sessions were the same as those obtained by PE. IgG and haemoglobin levels decreased little with LA. The rhythm of one session a week gave better results in LA. Although reuse of the plasma separator represents a financial saving it produced poorer results. The oral administration of simvastatin improved the results of LA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10147032
Cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated for each of 2 plasma cholesterol-lowering drug therapies, the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor simvastatin and the well established cholestyramine, in comparison with a nonpreventive drug treatment alternative. The study was confined to Swedish men (aged 37 to 64 years at start of therapy) with total serum cholesterol levels above 6.2 mmol/L who were free of coronary artery disease (CAD). Costs included expected direct costs of plasma cholesterol-lowering treatment less expected savings resulting from preventing CAD. Effects were defined as changes in life expectancy. A discount rate of 5% and Swedish kronor (SEK) 1988 prices were used. The impact on CAD risks was calculated using multivariate logistic risk estimates from the Framingham Heart Study; Swedish estimates were used to calculate intervention costs and changes in healthcare costs. Over the range of cholesterol levels examined (6.2 to 9.8 mmol/L), simvastatin was consistently more cost-effective than cholestyramine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10155198
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10170450
We estimated the cost effectiveness of adding the ACE inhibitor ramipril to conventional treatment in patients with heart failure after acute myocardial infarction. These estimates were based on the Acute Infarction Ramipril Efficacy (AIRE) study and on complementary Swedish healthcare resource use data for a subset of patients. The average follow-up period was 15 months (minimum 6 months, maximum 3.8 years). The perspective of the analysis was that of the county councils (third-party payers), and we focused on the cost of drugs and hospitalisation. The marginal cost effectiveness of the treatment was estimated over 3 treatment periods: 1, 2 and 3.8 years. The cost-effectiveness ratios varied between SEK14,148 and SEK33,033 per life-year gained ($US1 = SEK7.70. Pounds 1 = SEK12.40) for the 3 treatment periods. Adding ramipril to conventional treatment for heart failure after acute myocardial infarction is therefore cost effective, and compares favourably with the cost effectiveness of other common medical therapies in the cardiovascular field.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10170452
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors effectively reduce cholesterol levels, and this is associated with a lower rate of cardiovascular events. Some HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are more effective than others in reducing low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and such drugs should help patients achieve LDL cholesterol targets prescribed by the National Cholesterol Education Panel (NCEP). This paper describes the design of a trial comparing the clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness of four HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in reducing LDL cholesterol to specified targets. This trial is being conducted in 30 physicians' practices in the USA. Its primary aim is to assess the resource use required to achieve and maintain NCEP targets by all patients randomised and followed up for one year.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10172696
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10172918
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) has confirmed the link between the cholesterol-reducing effects of simvastatin and improved survival in patients with hypercholesterolaemia and pre-existing coronary heart disease (CHD). Pharmacoeconomic analyses of the 4S trial, using prospectively collected data for cost-generating events, demonstrate that the cost per year of life saved for simvastatin in such patients falls within the range considered cost effective. Reductions in resource utilisation costs (numbers of hospitalisations and revascularisation procedures) largely offset the acquisition cost of long term simvastatin treatment in the US. Models of primary prevention incorporating epidemiological data to predict CHD events generally suffer from deficiencies in the methods and assumptions used, and no firm conclusions can be made at present regarding relative cost effectiveness of the drugs studied, including simvastatin. It is generally agreed that cost effectiveness will improve in patients with higher absolute risk of CHD. In summary, simvastatin has been shown in a major clinical trial and its companion economic analyses to reduce mortality and to be cost effective in patients with hypercholesterolaemia and existing CHD. As is the case for others of its class, its cost-effectiveness ratio in primary prevention remains to be ascertained. This issue aside, simvastatin is a rational choice of cholesterol-lowering agent in secondary prevention whose use can be justified on an economic basis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10173046
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10173126
The aim of this study was to compare the cost effectiveness of micronised fenofibrate 200 mg and simvastatin 20 mg in the treatment of type IIa and IIb hyperlipidaemia. In a retrospective analysis, data from 2 randomised controlled clinical trials were evaluated. The results show that micronised fenofibrate has a better short term cost effectiveness than simvastatin. The costs per successfully treated patient with hyperlipidaemia over a 12-week period were [in Deutschmarks (DM); DMI = $US0.66, April 1995] DM537 for fenofibrate and DM809 for simvastatin. When the data were analysed according to type of hyperlipidaemia (classification of Frederickson), there were only small differences between both test drugs (DM450 for fenofibrate, DM517 for simvastatin) in patients with type IIa because simvastatin had higher response rates which, in part, compensated for the higher acquisition cost. However, response rates in patients with type IIb hyperlipidaemia were higher for fenofibrate, which led to a substantial cost advantage for this agent (DM768 for fenofibrate, DM2080 for simvastatin). These results were confirmed by various sensitivity analyses, including the assessment of drug monitoring programmes (postmarketing surveillance) to validate response rates and the total costs of the therapy. In this study, we evaluated the total costs of a 12-week period of therapy, not the costs per day. The results are based on actual clinical data and not just on theoretical models. The study underlines the necessity to differentiate between the types of hyperlipidaemia when performing a pharmacoeconomic analysis of lipid-lowering treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10178490
We developed a simulated immunization registry to assess the impact on the perceived immunization status in a population-based sample of 2-year-olds living in Olmsted County, MN, in 1995. We compiled records of all immunizations by abstracting immunization data from all medical care facilities in the county. The data collected from each facility were analyzed separately to provide the immunization rate as perceived by each facility. This perceived rate was compared to the rate obtained by combining all recorded immunizations from all facilities (simulated registry). Information on children not receiving any carefrom facilities in Olmsted County was compiled from birth certificate data and community school lists. Data from the simulated registry indicated that 69.1% of all children in Olmsted County with medical records were up-to-date on their immunizations by 20 months of age. By 24 months, this increased to 74.2%. The immunization rate of 24-month-old children recorded at individual healthcare facilities in Olmsted County ranged from 24.3% to 79.5%. The addition of data from the simulated registry increased the immunization rate at each site: a 27.7% relative increase in the site with the lowest recorded immunization rate, a 14.0% increase in the site with the intermediate immunization rate, and a 6.9% increase in the site with the highest internally perceived immunization rate. The registry also identified excess immunizations in 5% of the county's 2-year-olds. Each healthcare facility in this community gained an immediate benefit from the development of a simulated immunization registry. This immediate improvement in one quality-of-care measure (up-to-date immunization rate) should be factored into the cost/benefit assessment of immunization registries.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10179907
Coronary heart disease (CHD) has high prevalence in the United States and is associated with significant mortality as well as costs to society. Hyperlipidemia is a major and common modifiable risk factor for CHD. In clinical trials, cholesterol-lowering strategies have a dramatic impact on CHD risk, cardiovascular events, and mortality. Cost-effectiveness data have established that clinical and economic benefits are gained by instituting early and aggressive lipid-lowering therapy. We present new evidence for the clinical benefits and cost effectiveness of aggressive lipid-lowering therapy as primary or secondary prevention of CHD and describe strategies that managed care organizations can take to benefit from a lipid management program.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10182195
Recognising the importance of treating hyperlipidaemia, the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) has established widely accepted treatment goals for low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). Medications used most commonly to achieve these LDL-C goals are HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. The relative resource utilisation and cost associated with the use of reductase inhibitors of different LDL-C lowering efficacy are unknown, but are major health and economic concerns. The objective of this study was to determine the mean total cost of care to reach NCEP goals with various reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10182252
To review research addressing the management of cholesterol in the prevention of coronary heart disease in order to assess the cost-effectiveness of such interventions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10186462
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a major cause of death and illness in industrialised countries. Like other hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, pravastatin reduces total and low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels and increases high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels. Cholesterol modification with pravastatin in middle-aged hypercholesterolaemic men without CHD (i.e. primary prevention) was shown in the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) to reduce the incidence of fatal and nonfatal coronary events. In several other large studies, pravastatin reduced the incidence of CHD events in patients with prior CHD (secondary prevention). Large, long term studies of the relationship between cholesterol modification and CHD event rate have been conducted for some, but not all, other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. A UK pharmacoeconomic analysis of the WOSCOPS data indicated that primary prevention with pravastatin was associated with a cost of 20,375 Pounds per year of life gained (YLG) [discounted]. Treatment of men at high risk for CHD resulted in a lower cost estimate (13,995 Pounds/YLG). A US economic analysis based on secondary prevention with pravastatin in large plaque regression studies suggested a net cost of drug therapy of $US7124 to $US12,665 per YLG. A number of projected-risk models have attempted to calculate the cost effectiveness of primary or secondary prevention with pravastatin compared with other lipid-modifying interventions. These comparisons indicated that pravastatin was economically superior to intensive lifestyle counselling without drug therapy. Pravastatin generally appeared to be less cost effective than other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, although the relative effectiveness of the various drugs depended on the model considered. Risk-projection economic models are subject to methodological limitations, principally the necessity of estimating clinical effectiveness from epidemiological data (often derived from the Framingham Heart Study). An increased absolute risk of CHD improves the cost effectiveness of lipid-lowering therapy. Thus, the cost per YLG of pravastatin in secondary prevention is, in general, lower than that of primary prevention, reflecting the higher absolute risk of second versus first CHD events. However, it is important to note that individual absolute risk rates may overlap between patients receiving primary and secondary prevention. Similarly, treatment of selected individual patients at high risk for CHD events is associated with a lower cost per YLG than unselected treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10190398
It has proved difficult to identify high-risk patients for atherosclerosis and to determine how they might respond to medication. Recently, a common promoter variant of the human stromelysin-1 gene has been reported, which has been shown to affect the transcription. We investigated whether this polymorphism had any impact on the risk of events, especially restenosis and progression of coronary artery disease and whether the effect was modulated by treatment with pravastatin. The stromelysin-1 genotype was determined for 496 men with coronary artery disease and cholesterol levels between 4.0 and 8.0 mmol/L, participating in the Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS) study, a clinical trial assessing the effect of the lipid-lowering drug pravastatin on the progression of atherosclerosis. Patients in the placebo group with 5A6A or 6A6A genotypes had more clinical events than patients with the 5A5A genotype (26% and 12%, respectively, p = 0.03). In the pravastatin group, the risk of clinical events in patients with 5A6A or 6A6A genotypes was lower, compared with placebo, whereas it was unchanged in those with a 5A5A genotype (p value for interaction: 0.038). Also, the incidence of repeat angioplasty in the placebo group was greater in patients with the 6A6A or 5A6A genotypes, compared with 5A homozygotes (38% and 40%, respectively, vs 11%, p = 0.09). Again, treatment substantially reduced the incidence in heterozygotes and 6A homozygotes (0% and 15%, respectively), whereas it was unchanged in 5A homozygotes (28%, p for interaction: 0.002). These effects were independent of the effects of pravastatin on the lipid levels. Thus, this study suggests that the stomelysin-1 promoter polymorphism confers a genotype-specific response to medication in determining clinical event-free survival and the risk for symptom-driven repeat angioplasty. This variant may therefore act as a predictor, not only of disease progression, but also of response to therapy and risk of restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10190536
This randomized prospective clinical study evaluated the lipid-lowering effects and safety of a new combination regimen in patients with mixed hyperlipidemia. The data show that alternate-day simvastatin and fenofibrate therapy was as effective as the standard daily combination of the same drugs at the same doses, and it was safer, less expensive, and more tolerable.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10191973
Intravascular ultrasound imaging has been recognized as a sensitive tool to study early transplant vasculopathy lesions. An early examination performed soon after transplantation allows one to study donor atherosclerosis. Further, serial follow-up imaging with meticulous site matching provides important information regarding the progression of donor atherosclerosis and the development of transplant vasculopathy lesions. This review highlights the contribution of intravascular imaging in understanding the transplant coronary artery disease. This review also outlines various methodologies employed by different investigators, and stresses the strengths and weaknesses of these methodologies for correct interpretation as well as comparison of data from different studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10191975
Compelling evidence from clinical trials confirms the benefits of secondary prevention for patients with known coronary disease. Preventive therapies initiated after myocardial infarction can extend overall survival, reduce subsequent myocardial infarction, decrease the need for revascularization, and improve quality of life. All patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease should be considered for lipid lowering therapy, antiplatelet agents, beta-blockers, and control of hypertension. Long-term therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should be continued in patients with systolic dysfunction. Hormone replacement therapy has not been shown to benefit postmenopausal women when initiated after myocardial infarction. Smoking cessation, weight control, exercise, and appropriate diet represent important behavioral modifications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10192685
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10192749
Apolipoprotein E (apo E) allele E 4 is associated with high atherogenic lipid levels and coronary heart disease. Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) transfers cholesteryl esters from (high density lipoprotein) HDL to other lipoproteins. CETP gene expression is enhanced in hypercholesterolaemia and correlates with plasma apo E concentration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10193729
To assess the effects of aspirin compared with simvastatin on thrombin generation in hypercholesterolemic men, and to establish whether the reduction of elevated blood cholesterol by simvastatin would affect the action of aspirin on thrombin formation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10193730
The study sought to determine the effects of lipid-lowering with pravastatin on the systemic fibrinolytic profile and on thrombus formation under dynamic flow conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10193731
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10197299
Nonadherence to treatment is a common problem in the clinical management of hypercholesterolemic patients. This study was carried out with the aim of monitoring the daily compliance to a 6-month course of lipid-lowering therapy, using a microelectronic device, the Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS), versus pill count. Forty men with primary hypercholesterolemia were prescribed fluvastatin 1 x 40 mg daily, provided in a MEMS package to record the date and time of each opening of the pillbox. Thirty-nine of 40 patients (98%) completed the study. Total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol levels decreased significantly (18% and 25%, p < 0.001) during the 6-month therapy period. A high mean rate of compliance was achieved by MEMS using the following three indexes--compliance to total prescribed dose (88.8% +/- 13.5%), compliance to prescribed days (82.4% +/- 19.5%), and compliance to prescribed time of day (81.86% +/- 19.5%)--and by pill count (93.4% +/- 9.5%). In addition, the MEMS provided some patterns of nonadherence to medication, undetectable by pill count alone, such as a drug holiday in 38% of cases, a drug omission for more than 7 consecutive days in 9% of cases, and, conversely, use of more than the one prescribed daily dose in 47% of cases. A significant correlation between the rate of compliance and the decrease in LDL cholesterol was observed only when the compliance was assessed by MEMS. The results indicate that MEMS is a useful tool for monitoring compliance in clinical practice and may possibly increase adherence to long-term lipid-lowering therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10197301
Losartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist that is metabolized by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 to a more potent antihypertensive metabolite, E3174. Interaction studies with inhibitors of CYP3A4 have not demonstrated significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of losartan or E3174. The authors assessed the steady-state pharmacokinetics of losartan and E3174 when administered alone and concomitantly with fluvastatin, a specific CYP2C9 inhibitor. A prospective, open-label, crossover study was conducted in 12 healthy volunteers with losartan alone and in combination with fluvastatin. The baseline phase was 7 days of losartan (50 mg QAM), and the inhibition phase was 14 total days of fluvastatin (40 mg QHS), with the final 7 days including losartan. The authors found that fluvastatin did not significantly change the steady-state AUC0-24 or half-life of losartan or E3174. Losartan apparent oral clearance was not affected by fluvastatin. Inhibition of losartan metabolism appears to require both CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inhibition.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10198923
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10206830
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10208500
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10208998
Small, dense LDL particles are associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) and predict angiographic changes in response to lipid-lowering therapy. Intensive lipid-lowering therapy in the Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (FATS) resulted in significant improvement in CAD. This study examines the relationship among LDL density, hepatic lipase (HL), and CAD progression, identifying a new biological mechanism for the favorable effects of lipid-altering therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10211353
Treatment with a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) following a myocardial infarction has been shown to reduce the incidence of subsequent coronary revascularisation, myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death. The majority (89%) of patients admitted to the coronary care unit of our hospital received a fasting cholesterol check as part of a routine coronary care unit protocol. However, our survey shows that only 26% of patients surviving an acute myocardial infarction were on treatment with a statin at follow-up. Furthermore, those receiving statins were given smaller doses than those used in clinical trials. One way to ensure patients receive adequate treatment with statins, may be to include it as part of a coronary care unit protocol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10211536
The purpose of this study was to determine whether patients who are receiving lovastatin 20 mg daily can be switched to daily regimens of lovastatin 10 mg, pravastatin 10 mg, or simvastatin 5 mg without loss of lipid control or an increase in side effects. One hundred five patients were identified whose lipid levels were clinically stable on a regimen of lovastatin 20 mg/d; these patients were randomly allocated to a group that continued to receive lovastatin 20 mg/d (the control group) or a group receiving 1 of the 3 alternative regimens. Patients were evaluated after 6 and 12 weeks of treatment for side effects and changes in liver and muscle enzymes and lipid levels compared with baseline. Of the 105 patients enrolled, 5 withdrew because of side effects, 4 did not return for follow up, and 3 were excluded. Ninety-three patients completed the 12-week study. When baseline values were compared to those at week 12 for each group, the proportions of patients meeting treatment goals for LDL cholesterol, as defined by the National Cholesterol Education Program, were as follows: control group, 30.8% improved; lovastatin 10 mg, 16.7% worsened; pravastatin 10 mg, 27.3% improved; and simvastatin 5 mg, no change. Patients who were switched from lovastatin 20 mg daily to pravastatin 10 mg or simvastatin 5 mg daily did not experience statistically significant changes in mean total cholesterol levels. Patients who were switched from 20 to 10 mg/d of lovastatin experienced increases in mean total cholesterol levels (from 195 mg/dL +/-5 mg/dL at baseline to 200 mg/dL +/-5 mg/dL at 12 weeks; P<0.05). There were no differences in side effects or in elevations in liver or muscle enzymes. Thus patients who are stable on 20 mg/d lovastatin can be switched to a regimen of 10 mg/d pravastatin or 5 mg/d simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10212010
A retrospective study evaluated the success of dosages of simvastatin lower than the 10-20 mg/day recommended by the manufacturer in patients with hypercholesterolemia. Records of 95 patients enrolled in a pharmacist-managed lipid clinic receiving stable dosages of simvastatin were reviewed. Data collected were demographics, number of simvastatin refills, dosage distribution, baseline and posttreatment lipid profiles, and proportion of patients with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels below target as recommended by the National Cholesterol and Education Program. Dosages for 62% of patients were less than 20 mg/day. Percentages of patients at goal LDL were 98%, 89%, and 83% for patients taking 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/day, respectively. Patients taking 40 mg/day were least likely to be below the goal. There was an even distribution of patients taking each dosage. No statistical difference in compliance was noted among dosages based on prescription refills. Most patients taking less than the recommended initial dosage of the agent had satisfactory lipid control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10215754
To determine the effects of mibefradil on the nletabolism in human liver microsomal preparations of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin, atorvastatin, cerivastatin and fluvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10215758
Uncertainty as to relative under-reporting plagues the comparisons of spontaneous reporting rates as a tool for decision-making in pharmacovigilance. However, it is generally accepted that under-reporting should be reasonably similar for similar drugs sharing the same indication, country and period of marketing. To test this, we compared the adverse drug reaction reporting rates to the French regional pharmacovigilance centres for six pairs of identical drug marketed at the same time by different companies under different brand names (co-marketing).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10217372
The aim of the present study was to search in type IIb hyperlipidemic patients for putative concomitant effects of simvastatin on the physicochemical characteristics of low density lipoproteins (LDL) and high density lipoproteins (HDL), as well as on the activities of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) and the phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) that were determined in both endogenous lipoprotein-dependent and endogenous lipoprotein-independent assays. In a double-blind, randomized trial, patients received either placebo (one tablet/day; n = 12) or simvastatin (20 mg/day; n = 12) for a period of 8 weeks after a 5-week run-in period. Simvastatin, unlike placebo, reduced the lipid and apolipoprotein B contents of the most abundant LDL-1, LDL-2, and LDL-3 subfractions without inducing significant changes in the overall size distribution of LDL and HDL. Whereas simvastatin significantly increased PLTP activity in an endogenous lipoprotein-dependent assay (P < 0.01), no variation was observed in a lipoprotein-independent assay. Simvastatin significantly decreased plasma CETP activity in an endogenous lipoprotein-dependent assay (P < 0.01), and the reduction in plasma cholesteryl ester transfer rates was explained by a 16% drop in CETP mass concentration (P < 0.01). In contrast, the specific activity of CETP was unaffected by the simvastatin treatment reflecting at least in part the lack of significant alteration in plasma triglyceride-rich lipoprotein acceptors. The simvastatin-induced changes in plasma CETP mass levels correlated positively with changes in plasma CETP activity (r = 0.483, P = 0.0561), in total cholesterol levels (r = 0.769; P < 0.01), and in LDL-cholesterol levels (r = 0.736; P < 0.01). Whereas the observations suggest that simvastatin might exert concomitant beneficial effects on plasma CETP and LDL levels, neither plasma cholesteryl ester transfer activity nor plasma phospholipid transfer activity appeared as the main determinants of the LDL and HDL distribution profiles in type IIb hyperlipidemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10217377
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10221321
Major risk factors for coronary heart disease are also associated with early carotid artery thickening, but no studies have yet examined patterns of risk factors to see whether they differ for the two outcomes. Assuming similar pathogenesis for both coronary and carotid atherosclerosis, one could interpret risk factor pattern differences as relating to differences in staging, i.e., early atheroma versus later stenotic or occlusive atherothrombosis. This study included 12,193 Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study participants aged 45-64 years who were free of clinical cardiovascular disease in 1987-1989, in whom 420 myocardial infarctions or coronary heart disease deaths occurred over the next 6 years. Plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, and smoking were major risk factors for both outcomes. Compared with these factors, triglycerides and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol were associated only weakly with carotid atherosclerosis but were associated strongly with coronary heart disease incidence. No other risk factors, including those associated with diabetes mellitus, hemostasis, and inflammation, differed in their relative contribution to the two outcomes. These results suggest that the high triglyceride-low HDL cholesterol pattern is involved in the transition from atheroma to atherothrombosis, and that control of this pattern may be important in persons with detectable subclinical disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10221367
Protease inhibitors (PIs) effectively inhibit replication of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and reduce mortality and prolong survival in patients with HIV infection. Newer PIs saquinavir (soft gelatin capsule) and amprenavir, as well as other PIs, may be effective when administered twice/day. Adverse reactions may occur, as well as metabolic complications and interactions between PIs and other drugs, including other PIs. The strategy of combining PIs is based on specific pharmacologic interactions among the agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10225769
Lipoprotein (a) [Lp (a)] is a risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD), especially in the presence of a raised low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (LDL-C). To ascertain whether reduction of both LDL and Lp(a) is more advantageous than reduction of LDL alone, patients with heterozygous FH and CHD were selected randomly to receive either LDL apheresis fortnightly plus simvastatin 40 mg/day or colestipol 20 g plus simvastatin 40 mg/day. Quantitative coronary angiography was undertaken before and after 2.1 years. Changes in serum lipids were similar in both groups except for the greater reduction of LDL-C and Lp(a) by apheresis. There were no significant differences in primary angiographic endpoints, and none of the angiographic changes correlated with Lp(a). Although LDL apheresis plus simvastatin was more effective than colestipol plus simvastatin in reducing LDL-C and Lp(a), it was not more beneficial in influencing coronary atherosclerosis. Decreasing Lp(a) seems unnecessary if LDL-C is reduced below 130 mg/dl.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10225774
The chief indication for low density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis is the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), a potentially fatal condition that responds poorly to conventional therapy. Dextran sulfate/cellulose adsorption columns (Kaneka) and on-line heparin precipitation (HELP) are the most popular systems used in LDL apheresis. Weekly or biweekly procedures plus concomitant drug therapy enable LDL cholesterol to be maintained at 30-50% of its untreated level, with regression of xanthomas, arrest of progression of coronary atherosclerosis, and improved life expectancy. However, aortic stenosis may progress despite apheresis and necessitate valve replacement. Better control of hypercholesterolemia results from combining apheresis with a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, atorvastatin. LDL apheresis can also be useful in treating drug-resistant FH heterozygotes with coronary disease. However, the FH Regression Study showed no evidence that reduction by apheresis of both LDL and lipoprotein(a), was more advantageous than reduction by combination drug therapy of LDL alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10226769
Dramatic drug-drug interactions have been observed between several HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) inhibitors. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of mibefradil, a potent CYP3A inhibitor, on pravastatin pharmacokinetics. 12 healthy volunteers were included in this open-label one-period study. Pravastatin pharmacokinetics (following a single oral dose of 40 mg) was studied in the absence of mibefradil (day 1) and after repeated doses (100 mg/day) of mibefradil (day 8). Pravastatin pharmacokinetics after repeated doses of 40 mg/day was also studied in association with repeated doses (100 mg/day) of mibefradil (day 16). Pravastatin area under the plasma concentration vs. time curve (AUC0-infinity) and Cmax in the absence of mibefradil on day 1 (170 [117 to 395] ng h/mL and 91 [72 to 200] ng/mL respectively, geometric mean [95% confidence intervals]) were not significantly altered in the presence of mibefradil on day 8 (224 [174 to 381] ng h/mL and 124 [72 to 200] ng/mL) and on day 16 (200 [137 to 555] ng h/mL and 91 [74 to 184] ng/mL). Tmax of pravastatin in the absence of mibefradil (0.9 +/- 0.1 h, arithmetic mean +/- SD) was slightly delayed in the presence of mibefradil on day 8 and 16 (1.1 +/- 0.3 and 1.2 +/- 0.3 h respectively, p < 0.01 for both comparisons). The results of the present study confirm the lack of pharmacokinetic interactions between mibefradil and pravastatin and indicate that pravastatin may be safely prescribed in the presence of potent CYP3A inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10227772
We examined whether aggressive lipid lowering using low-density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis could prevent restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). Fifteen patients with 17 lesions underwent LDL apheresis once within a week before and after PTCA and thereafter every 2 or 3 weeks (apheresis group) for about 4 months. The control group consisted of 17 patients with 17 lesions. No patients received additional lipid lowering drugs after PTCA. In the apheresis group, the time interval means of the total and LDL cholesterol levels were significantly lower than those in the control group whereas no significant differences were found between the 2 groups regarding the mean percent diameter stenosis or minimal lumen diameter before and after PTCA and at follow-up. The restenosis rate was 29.4% in the apheresis group and 47.1% in the control group. The restenosis rate tended to be slightly lower in the apheresis group. The overall results, however, indicated that aggressive lipid lowering does not prevent restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10227773
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by a lifelong elevation in the concentration of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) bound cholesterol in blood by cholesterol deposits and by early coronary artery disease. The LDL apheresis technique has been introduced with the goal of reducing LDL cholesterol levels, thereby preventing the development of atherosclerosis. The literature on LDL apheresis reports 2 different facets, the therapeutic aspect associated with the lessening of LDL concentration and the initiation of a peroxidation process associated with the biocompatibility of the artificial membrane. Lipid and protein peroxidation gives rise to toxic and atherogenic hydroperoxide, mostly lipid hydroperoxides, and derivative compounds, which may offset the benefit of the procedure. In this paper, plasma hydroperoxide levels are determined along with the elevation of the serum and LDL antioxidant status in hypercholesterolemic patients before and following repeated LDL apheresis sessions. Hydroperoxide concentration has been expressed both in terms of plasma volume and LDL concentration. A highly significant increase in LDL lipid hydroperoxides is demonstrated when expressed in terms of LDL concentration and is associated with the LDL apheresis procedure. The usefulness of antioxidant supplementation in LDL apheresis is discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10227774
Levels of plasma soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1), soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1), and von Willebrand factor (vWF) increase in patients with peripheral vascular or ischemic heart disease. These factors are related to the progression of atherosclerosis. Furthermore, these substances and thrombomodulin (TM) are indicators for assessing the degree of damage to the endothelium. To evaluate the effect of double filtration plasmapheresis (DFPP) on these molecules, the plasma levels of vWF, sICAM-1, sVCAM-1, and TM were measured in 4 familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) patients who underwent treatment with DFPP at 2 week intervals for more than 3 years. The levels of sVCAM-1 and sICAM-1 in hypercholesterolemia patients with ischemic heart disease as a control was 773 +/- 109 and 334 +/- 82 ng/ml. These values were higher than the normal value. In the FH patients who underwent DFPP treatment, the average sICAM-1 levels were 221 +/- 47 and 197 +/- 36 ng/ml before and after, respectively. The average sVCAM-1 levels were 601 +/- 87 and 486 +/- 60 ng/ml. There were no significant differences between the pre- and post-DFPP values. The activities of plasma vWF before and after DFPP treatment were 158 +/- 23 and 45 +/- 9%. The levels of plasma TM before and after treatment were 3.0 +/- 0.3 and 3.4 +/- 0.5 FU/ml. From these results, it is suggested that DFPP treatment does not damage the endothelium and may prevent the progression of atherosclerosis by removing the substances that induce the production of sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1 due to long-term treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10230580
The use of triple regimens, often called highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), generally involving 2 nucleoside analogues and an HIV protease inhibitor, have been endorsed as the standard of care for persons with HIV initiating therapy by a number of sets of international guidelines. The widespread availability of protease inhibitor-containing regimens has been associated with a dramatic drop in the incidence of new AIDS events and mortality throughout the developed world. Use of HAART regimens, particularly in treatment-nave individuals, is also associated with dramatic reductions in HIV RNA load, rises in CD4+ cell numbers and improvements in some aspects of immune function. However, protease inhibitor therapy is associated with a range of adverse effects, which varies between agents, and regimens frequently involve inconvenient administration schedules and disruption to patient's lives. Thus, the undoubted benefits of antiretroviral therapy come at some cost in terms of both physical and psychological morbidity to the recipient. In assessing an individual for therapy, consideration of the risk of disease events and the benefit of therapy in reducing or preventing these events must be weighed against the potential of therapy to cause morbidity. Using these criteria, we suggest that an individual with a 3 year risk of disease progression of less than 10% (based on CD4+ cell count and HIV RNA load) is more likely to a experience a morbidity if treated with HAART than if left untreated and monitored. For individuals with higher risks of HIV progression the risk versus benefit of initiating therapy may, in many cases, still be in favour of no therapy and continued observation. This will vary depending on the individuals risks (such as family and past medical history) and on the choice of agents in the regimen, some regimens having greater risks than others.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10235694
Fluvastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor used to treat patients with hypercholesterolaemia. Since fluvastatin was last reviewed in Drugs, trials have shown its efficacy in the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) events and death and have expanded knowledge of its effects in primary CHD prevention and its mechanisms of activity. In addition to reducing total (TC) and low density lipoprotein (LDL-C) cholesterol, fluvastatin has antiatherogenic, antithrombotic and antioxidant effects, can improve vascular function, and may have immunomodulatory effects. Although fluvastatin interacts with bile acid sequestrants (requiring separation of doses), its pharmacokinetics permit oral administration to most patient groups. Fluvastatin is well tolerated, with adverse effects usually mild and transient. Use of fluvastatin to reduce lipids in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia is well established. Its effects are similar in most patient groups, with 20 to 80 mg/day reducing LDL-C by 22 to 36%, triglycerides (TG) by 12 to 18% and apolipoprotein B by 19 to 28% and increasing high density lipoprotein cholesterol by 3.3 to 5.6%. Attempts to find fluvastatin dosages with efficacy equivalent to that of other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors produce variable results, but larger per-milligram fluvastatin dosages are needed when patients switch from other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Combinations of fluvastatin with fibric acid derivatives and bile acid sequestrants produce additive effects. Small noncomparative studies suggest fluvastatin reduces LDL-C in patients with hypercholesterolaemia secondary to kidney disorders by < or = 40.5% and with type 2 diabetes mellitus by < or = 32%. Three large randomised, double-blind trials show fluvastatin can help prevent CHD events or death and slow disease progression in patients with CHD with or without hypercholesterolaemia. In the Fluvastatin Angiographic Restenosis trial in patients undergoing balloon angioplasty, fluvastatin 80 mg/day for 40 weeks reduced the postangioplasty rate of deaths plus myocardial infarctions (1.5% vs 4% with placebo, p < 0.025) without altering vessel luminal diameters. In the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study in patients with coronary artery stenosis, luminal diameter reduced to a significantly lesser extent after fluvastatin 20 mg twice daily than placebo after 2.5 years (-0.028 vs -0.01 mm, p < 0.005). The Lescol in Symptomatic Angina study found reductions in all cardiac events or cardiac death in patients after 1 year of fluvastatin 40 mg/day (1.6% vs 5.6% for placebo, p < 0.05).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10321422
The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors have become the drugs of choice for the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolemia. However, one of the major concerns with these drugs is cost. In an attempt to develop a cost-effective treatment strategy for patients referred to our lipid clinic, we conducted a meta-analysis to estimate the lipid-lowering efficacy of the various HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors alone or in combination with niacin or cholestyramine. Based on cholesterol-lowering efficacy estimates derived from a literature-based meta-analysis, we performed a population-based treat-to-target analysis. Fifty-six trials with 101 monotherapy cohorts and 20 trials with 31 combination-therapy cohorts (573 patients) were included in the meta-analysis. Based on reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), the most effective monotherapy was atorvastatin and the least effective monotherapy was fluvastatin. Combination therapy was more effective in reducing LDL-C than monotherapy with the respective HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. However, on the basis of dollars spent per percentage of LDL-C reduction, combination therapy was frequently less cost-effective than monotherapy. In addition, combination therapy was associated with a higher rate of noncompliance and a greater risk of drug-drug interactions. As a result, we based our treat-to-target analysis on the use of monotherapy as first-line treatment, with combination therapy reserved for patients failing to achieve the target LDL-C levels of the US National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel II (NCEP ATP-II) with monotherapy. In the population-based treat-to-target analysis, atorvastatin was the most cost-effective drug for high-risk patients (those with coronary heart disease [CHD]), whereas fluvastatin was the most cost-effective agent for low-risk patients (<2 risk factors for CHD) and moderate-risk patients (> or =2 risk factors for CHD). If 1 drug is chosen to treat all patients (i.e., in cases of formulary restriction), atorvastatin would be the most cost-effective agent. In adapting the findings on cholesterol-lowering efficacy from this analysis to our lipid clinic, we concluded that the most cost-effective treatment approach is to individualize the selection of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor based on both coronary risk and the LDL-C reduction required to achieve NCEP ATP-II goals. Based on our results, 2 agents--atorvastatin and fluvastatin--should be available on the formulary.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10323355
Clinical trials conducted during the past five years have yielded important results that have allowed us to refine our approach to stroke prevention. Treatment of isolated systolic hypertension prevents stroke and is generally well tolerated. New antiplatelet agents (clopidogrel and the combination of aspirin plus high-dose dipyridamole) have been shown to be effective in reducing vascular events in survivors of ischemic stroke, although aspirin remains the mainstay of antiplatelet therapy for stroke prevention. Several clinical trials support the benefit of lipid-lowering agents ("statins") in reducing stroke. Warfarin reduces stroke for high-risk patients with atrial fibrillation. Carotid endarterectomy is highly beneficial in reducing stroke for symptomatic patients with severe carotid stenosis (greater than 70 percent), but the benefit is less for symptomatic patients with a moderate degree of stenosis (50 to 69 percent) and for patients with asymptomatic carotid disease of any severity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10327772
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10329064
In observational studies, prolonged lower blood total cholesterol levels - down at least to 3 mmol. l-1 - are associated with lower risks of coronary heart disease. Cholesterol-lowering therapy may, therefore, be worthwhile for individuals at high risk of coronary heart disease events irrespective of their presenting cholesterol levels. Observational studies also suggest that increased dietary intake of antioxidant vitamins may be associated with lower risks of coronary heart disease. The present randomized trial aims to assess reliably the effects on mortality and major morbidity of cholesterol-lowering therapy and of antioxidant vitamin supplementation in a wide range of different categories of high-risk patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10335757
Cerivastatin is a third generation hydroxy-methyl-glutaryl-Co-enzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor proven to lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol 28% to 31% in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia when given at 0.3 mg/day. This study evaluates the safety, tolerability, pharmacodynamics, and pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin 0.8 mg once daily for 4 weeks. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel group trial conducted at 2 study centers, 41 patients (63% women) with primary hypercholesterolemia were placed on an American Heart Association Step 1 diet for 4 weeks. Single-blind placebo was administered for the final 2 weeks, before randomization. Patients received cerivastatin 0.8 mg (n = 28) or placebo (n = 13) once each evening for 28 days. Cerivastatin at 0.8 mg daily was well tolerated. No discontinuations occurred during the study. Adverse events were mild and transient. One cerivastatin-treated patient experienced asymptomatic creatinine kinase, 8x the upper limit of normal (ULN) elevation on the last day of the study, which resolved 6 days after the completion of the study. Cerivastatin 0.8 mg daily significantly reduced LDL cholesterol compared with placebo (-44.0 +/- 2.0% vs 2.2 +/- 2.8%, p <0.0001); total cholesterol (-30.8 +/- 1.4% vs 2.6 +/- 2.1%, p <0.0001), triglycerides (-11.2 +/- 5.9% vs 15.9 +/- 8.6%, p <0.02), but did not significantly alter high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (3.2 +/- 2.1% vs -1.2 +/- 3.1%, p = NS). The pharmacokinetics of the 0.8-mg dose revealed dose proportional elevations in the 24-hour area under the curve and maximum plasma concentration relative to 0.3- and 0.4-mg doses with no change in time to maximum concentration or the elimination half-life in plasma. The increased efficacy and lack of clinically significant laboratory abnormalities or adverse events demonstrates a need for a large long-term study to confirm the safety and efficacy of this dose of cerivastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10335764
A randomized, blinded, multicenter clinical trial was performed comparing low- and high-dose simvastatin (40 and 80 mg) with comparable doses of atorvastatin (20 and 40 mg) for effects on plasma concentrations of lipoproteins and apolipoprotein A-I over 12 weeks in 842 patients with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. The 2 agents reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides to a comparable degree, but simvastatin raised high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I more than atorvastatin, suggesting differences in metabolic effects of the 2 agents on plasma lipids and lipoproteins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10335771
Blood pressure (BP) reduction was compared between patients receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors alone and patients receiving these medications plus statins after 3 months of dietary intervention. Although BP was similarly reduced at week 4, the statin-treated group had a greater reduction in BP and total cholesterol levels at week 16, suggesting a synergistic effect between cholesterol lowering with statins and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor treatment for hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10337451
Serum coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10: 2-(3,7,11,15,19,23,27,31,35,39-decamethyl-2,6,10,14,18,22,26,30,34 ,38 -tetracontadecaenyl)-5,6-dimethoxy-3-methyl-1,4-benzoquinone, CAS 303-98-0) and cholesterol levels were measured to assess the effect of cholesterol-lowering therapy in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Twenty healthy volunteers, 97 NIDDM patients and 2 patients with familial hypercholesterolemia were studied. None had overt heart failure or any other heart disease. Mean serum CoQ10 concentrations were significantly (p < 0.01) lower in diabetic patients with normal serum cholesterol concentrations, either with or without administration of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (HMG-CoA RIs) including simvastatin (normal: 0.91 +/- 0.26 (mean +/- SD) mumol 1(-1); diabetic with HMG-CoA RI: 0.63 +/- 0.19; diabetic without HMG-CoA RI: 0.66 +/- 0.21). CoQ10 concentrations were higher (1.37 +/- 0.48, p < 0.001) in diabetic patients with hypercholesterolemia. Simvastatin or low density lipoprotein apheresis decreased serum CoQ10 concentrations along with decreasing serum cholesterol. Oral CoQ10 supplementation in diabetic patients receiving HMG-CoA RI significantly (p < 0.001) increased serum CoQ10 from 0.81 +/- 0.24 to 1.47 +/- 0.44 mumol 1(-1), without affecting cholesterol levels. It significantly (p < 0.03) decreased cardiothoracic ratios from 51.4 +/- 5.1 to 49.2 +/- 4.7%. In conclusion, serum CoQ10 levels in NIDDM patients are decreased and may be associated with subclinical diabetic cardiomyopathy reversible by CoQ10 supplementation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10337501
This study was a 1-year clinical study on 16 (7 males and 9 females) pediatric patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia treated with hypocholesterolemic diet only, or with diet plus drug (simvastatin 10 mg/day). According to the study protocol, the children were submitted to a 3-month washout (free diet). Then they were given a diet (American Heart Association, step 2) for 6 months. After 6 months they were divided into two groups matched for sex, age and body mass index (BMI). Diet only was given to group A (n = 8); simvastatin (10 mg/daily) was given to group B, for 1 year. All patients were examined at baseline, and monitored for safety during the study by pediatricians. All patients were submitted to noninvasive cardiovascular examinations (exercise electrocardiogram, echocardiography). After 12 months of treatment with simvastatin, total cholesterol (TC) and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLC) showed a statistically significant reduction (group B). The decrease of TC and LDLC in patients on diet only was 4% and 3% (all) and 17% and 4% (group A) after 6 and 12 months, respectively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10339027
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10342343
The rheological properties of erythrocytes are impaired in diabetes mellitus, especially because of changes in their membrane lipid composition. In hypercholesterolaemic patients, lowering plasma cholesterol is associated with an improvement of the erythrocyte rheological parameters. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between erythrocyte deformability, plasma lipids, lipid membrane composition and cytosolic cations in poorly controlled Type 2 diabetic patients and to test the effects of a cholesterol-lowering treatment on these parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10342818
Diabetic patients have greater risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) events after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery than nondiabetic patients. The Post CABG trial studied the effects of aggressive cholesterol lowering and low-dose anticoagulation in diabetic patients compared with nondiabetic patients. A double-blind, randomized clinical trial in 1,351 patients (1-11 years after CABG), the Post CABG trial consisted of two interventions (aggressive cholesterol-lowering versus moderate lowering and low-dose warfarin versus placebo) on angiographic end points. Angiographic changes in saphenous vein graft conduits 4.3 years after entry were compared in 116 diabetic and 1,235 nondiabetic patients. Seven clinical centers participated in the trial, as well as the National Institutes of Health project office (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute), the coordinating center (Maryland Medical Research Institute), and the Angiogram Reading Center (University of Minnesota). Baseline characteristics of the diabetic patients differed from the nondiabetic patients in the following ways: percentage of women participants, 15 vs. 7%, P = 0.002; mean baseline weight, 87.4 vs. 82.8 kg, P = 0.006; mean BMI, 29.5 vs. 27.6 kg/m2, P = 0.0002; mean systolic blood pressure, 141.7 vs. 133.6, P < 0.0001; mean triglyceride concentrations, 2.09 vs. 1.77 mmol/l, P < 0.0001; and mean HDL cholesterol concentrations, 0.93 vs. 1.02 mmol, P = 0.0001. The percentage of clinical events was higher in diabetic than nondiabetic patients (20.6 vs. 13.4, P = 0.033) and angiographic outcomes were not different. The benefits of aggressive cholesterol lowering were comparable in diabetic and nondiabetic patients for the angiographic end points. Warfarin use was not associated with clinical or angiographic benefit. Diabetic patients in the Post CABG trial had more CHD risk factors at study entry and higher clinical event rates during the study than nondiabetic patients. The benefits of aggressive cholesterol lowering in diabetic patients were comparable to those in nondiabetic patients for both angiographic and clinical end points. The small number of diabetic patients provided limited power to detect significant differences between diabetic and nondiabetic patients or between diabetic patients in the aggressive versus moderate cholesterol treatment strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10344068
Transplantation is an increasingly common procedure. Yet the contribution of accelerated atherosclerosis to the reduction of graft life is often underestimated. This review examines the evidence for the involvement of hyperlipidaemia and other cardiovascular disease risk factors in the aetiology of chronic graft failure in renal, cardiac, liver and pancreatic transplantation. The evidence for the role of lipid lowering therapy in the prevention of accelerated atheroma in these patients is reviewed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10344609
The treatment of toenail onychomycosis is reviewed. Onychomycosis contributes to 40% of all nail disorders and appears to be increasing in frequency. Mycotic nail infections are usually caused by dermatophytes, yeasts, and nondermatophyte molds. Most cases of toenail onychomycosis are caused by dermatophytes. Mycotic nail infections do not always resolve spontaneously and may have a substantial impact on the patient's quality of life. Current treatment modalities for onychomycosis include surgery, topical antifungals, and oral antifungals. Surgery is generally not recommended as first-line therapy. Broad-spectrum topical and oral antifungal agents are the most frequently used treatments. Topical treatment is well tolerated but is usually not effective because of poor patient compliance and inadequate penetration of the nail. Oral antifungals are more successful but carry greater risks. Griseofulvin and ketoconazole have been oral antifungals traditionally used for onychomycosis, but these agents are associated with relatively low cure rates. Itraconazole and terbinafine are both safe and effective first-line agents, with reported overall cure rates of 50-90% for dermatophyte-related onychomycosis. Intermittent oral antifungal therapy may reduce the risk of systemic adverse effects and the cost of therapy; more study of this approach is needed. Oral antifungal agents offer patients with toenail onychomycosis greater likelihood of a cure than topical antifungals, but oral therapy carries greater risks and requires closer monitoring.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10345158
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death and the leading source of healthcare expenditure in the US and most other industrialised countries. Cholesterol lowering by pharmacological means prevents atherosclerotic plaque progression and has been shown to reduce both fatal and nonfatal coronary events in patients with or without coronary artery disease (CAD). Because of their excellent efficacy and safety profiles, the introduction of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (also known an 'statins') in 1987 raised hopes for demonstrating the survival benefit of cholesterol reduction. In the past decade, several large-scale placebo-controlled trials with statin therapy have revisited the relationship between cholesterol reduction, cardiovascular disease and mortality. The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) [pravastatin] and the Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study (AFCAPS/TexCAPS) [lovastatin] have shown significant cardiovascular disease reduction in primary prevention trials of patients with elevated and normal cholesterol levels, respectively. The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), the Long-Term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaemic Disease (LIPID) Study and the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE) trial [pravastatin] have shown significant cardiovascular disease reduction in patients with a previous history of CAD with high, moderate and normal cholesterol levels, respectively. Three of these studies (4S, WOSCOPS and LIPID) have shown significant reduction in all-cause mortality, while all the statin secondary prevention trials (4S, CARE and LIPID) have demonstrated significant reduction in cerebrovascular disease/ Earlier cholesterol reduction cost-effectiveness studies with nonstatin treatments (bile acid resins, fibrates, niacin and diet) suggested that only patients at extremely high risk could be treated with lipid therapy in a cost-effective manner. More recently, rigorous outcomes evidence demonstrates that statins, particularly for simvastatin for secondary prevention and lovastatin for primary prevention, have a broadly favourable cost-effectiveness profile. Based on US medical price levels and the available clinical trial data on statins, it would be cost effective [e.g. cost less than $US50,000/year of life saved] to intervene with statin therapy in any patient with an annual CAD risk exceeding 1%. This includes all patients with pre-existing CAD or diabetes mellitus, and many more primary prevention patients than are currently contemplated by the US National Cholesterol Education Panel treatment guidelines. Achieving such a goal will require enormous changes in patient education, clinical perspective, healthcare practice and healthcare finances. But any proven opportunity for saving the lives of 25% of those dying from cardiovascular disease each year deserves to be considered with the utmost seriousness and urgency.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10346426
Drug treatment of dyslipidaemia has progressed dramatically over the past decade. Of the available drugs, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have emerged as very effective and important treatments for dyslipidaemia. These agents potently reduce low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels (the main lipid target in management protocols and treatment guidelines) and have produced significant reductions in coronary heart disease (CHD) related morbidity and mortality, as well as overall mortality, in large intervention studies. They have also been shown to reduce progression and increase regression of coronary atherosclerosis. Statins are generally well tolerated and are thus associated with high patient compliance in comparison with the other classes of medications used for dyslipidaemia. There are minimal studies to date with these agents in patients with elevated triglycerides, either with or without accompanying elevated cholesterol levels. Preliminary results with statins in patients with hypertriglyceridaemia are promising, with reductions in triglycerides of 26 and 46%, respectively, having been reported following treatment with simvastatin and atorvastatin. Therefore, statins can be considered first-line drugs in many patients with elevated total and/or LDL-cholesterol levels according to treatment guidelines.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10350664
To compare cerivastatin with simvastatin in their long term safety and efficacy in reducing low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10353071
To evaluate and compare the influences of micronized fenofibrate and atorvastatin on serum lipid profile, including lipoprotein(a) levels, and on fibrinogen levels in a large group of patients with primary mixed hyperlipidemia (serum total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels > 240 and 160 mg/dl, respectively, and serum triglyceride level > 200 mg/dl).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10354197
Atorvastatin is a potent inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A reductase, but its effect on bile acid synthesis is unknown. The objectives of the study were to determine the effect of atorvastatin on bile acid synthesis in patients in whom this process had not been or had been previously up-regulated by pharmacological or surgical means.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10355866
At sites of thrombosis and vascular injury, interactions occur among platelets, leucocytes and endothelial cells. Patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD) have been shown to have raised total serum cholesterol and serum triglycerides and increased sP-selectin levels when compared with controls. A total of 31 patients with PAOD and hypercholesterolaemia took part in this three-staged study. Soluble P-selectin (sP-selectin) levels were significantly lowered after 12 weeks of fluvastatin treatment (157.0 ng/ml versus 113.77 ng/ml, p = 0.01), whereas 12 weeks of placebo treatment had no statistically significant effect on sP-selectin levels (150.0 ng/ml versus 139.4 ng/ml). An unpaired t-test almost reached statistical significance (p = 0.051) when the levels by which sP-selectin fell after 12 weeks of active or placebo treatment were compared. The placebo group was then put onto long-term, active treatment and sP-selectin levels were significantly lowered by fluvastatin when compared to pre-treatment levels (150.0 ng/ml versus 110.0 ng/ml, p = 0.03). By lowering the levels of P-selectin, fluvastatin may not only attenuate atherosclerotic progression but may also decrease the platelet activation associated with PAOD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10356659
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors reduce serum total cholesterol concentrations and the risk of coronary heart disease in patients with hypercholesterolemia. Recently, it has been reported that patients with combined hyperlipidemia are also at risk of coronary heart disease. However, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy alone does not sufficiently reduce serum triglyceride concentrations. Epidemiological and clinical evidence has shown that fish oil can lower plasma lipid levels, especially triglycerides. Consequently, we investigated the effects of the combination of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and eicosapentaenoic acid, a major component of fish oil, on hyperlipidemia. We administered 900-1,800 mg/day of the ethyl ester of eicosapentaenoic acid to patients with hyperlipidemia who had been treated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors for 30 +/- 6 months (means +/- SE). Serum total cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations were significantly decreased 3 months after the administration of eicosapentaenoic acid (from 5.63 +/- 0.23 mmol/l to 5.02 +/- 0.20 mmol/l, P < 0.05; from 2.07 +/- 0.41 mmol/l to 1.08 +/- 0.17 mmol/l, P < 0.01, respectively). Serum high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentrations were significantly increased after the treatment (from 1.23 +/- 0.12 mmol/l to 1.34 +/- 0.13 mmol/l, P < 0.05). Plasma eicosapentaenoic acid concentrations and the ratio to arachidonic acid in plasma were also significantly increased 3 months after the treatment (from 101.9 +/- 8.1 mg/l to 181.8 +/- 23.9 mg/l, P < 0.001; from 0.640 +/- 0.075 to 1.211 +/- 0.170, P < 0.001, respectively). These results suggested that the combination therapy of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and eicosapentaenoic acid was effective for patients with hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10359730
Early stages of coronary atherosclerosis are characterized by a mainly functional impairment of coronary vasodilator capacity under the impact of such risk factors as hypercholesterolemia. The goal of this study was to determine whether 6-month cholesterol-lowering therapy improves coronary flow reserve in patients with angina, reduced flow reserve despite minimally diseased coronary vessels or even normal angiogram, and mild to moderately elevated LDL levels on average.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10360474
Medulloblastoma is a malignant paediatric central nervous system tumor with a poor prognosis, stimulating the evaluation of improved treatment strategies. Lovastatin, a competitive inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, is currently used to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia. This compound also inhibits the production of non-steroidal mevalonate derivatives that are implicated in the control of cellular proliferation, and can induce cell-cycle arrest in vitro. We recently showed that lovastatin inhibited growth and promoted apoptosis of neuroblastoma, the peripheral nervous system 'cousin' of medulloblastoma. Therefore the potential of lovastatin as a possible anticancer drug against medulloblastoma was evaluated in vitro. Four medulloblastoma cell lines, Daoy, UW228, D341 Med and D283 Med, were treated with 1-40 microM of lovastatin in vitro. Analysis of cell morphologic changes, cell viability, DNA fragmentation and flow cytometry in all four cell lines showed growth inhibition and induction of apoptosis with lovastatin treatment. As little as 10 microM of lovastatin was sufficient to cause a marked reduction in cell numbers, and more than 20 microM of lovastatin induced >90% cells to undergo apoptosis, after intervals ranging between 36 and 96 h, depending on the cell line. Lovastatin induced apoptosis in these cell lines was concomitant with cell cycle arrest in G1. The attached cell lines UW228 and Daoy were more sensitive to lovastatin than D283 Med and D341 Med. Daoy cells which survived several cycles of lovastatin treatment could still be induced to undergo apoptosis after longer treatment times. The efficient induction of apoptosis by lovastatin favours this drug as a potential new avenue of therapeutic intervention for medulloablastoma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10361905
To assess the value of secondary prevention with lipid lowering therapy following either balloon angioplasty (PTCA) or bypass surgery (CABG) in familial hypercholesterolemia patients, the correlation of the new evolution of stenotic lesions and therapeutically achieved cholesterol levels was studied in 50 patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10362210
We sought to examine the individual and combined effects of estrogen/progestin therapy versus lovastatin on lipids and flow-mediated vasodilation in postmenopausal women with heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10366279
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10368773
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10368879
To establish whether patients receiving the cholesterol synthesis enzyme inhibitor fluvastatin 20 mg/day could obtain an additional improvement in their lipid pattern as a result of physical endurance training.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10370746
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10370979
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10371111
It has earlier been suggested that postoperative thrombocytosis frequently occur after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and may be linked to lipid disturbances. A prospective randomized study was undertaken to evaluate if preoperative lipid-control, using HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitor (Zocor), simvastatin, reduces the risk of postoperative thrombocytosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10372447
The role of cholesterol in neoplasic cell growth and its inhibition by drugs has recently been studied. Cholesterol biosynthesis inhibitors have been used as adjuvants in the treatment of cancer and possibly as prophylactic in carcinogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10381291
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, such as pravastatin, are widely used as lipid lowering drugs in hypercholesterolemia. Pravastatin does not only reduce the atherogenic low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol, but is also increasing high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol. However, the mechanism leading to an increase of HDL are unclear. Therefore, the effects of pravastatin on the in vivo kinetics of apolipoprotein (apo) A-I were studied in six normolipidemic subjects and in a patient with coronary artery disease (CAD) utilizing stable isotope tracer techniques. Two turnover studies were performed. The first turnover study was carried out before any drug treatment, the second study after 6 weeks of 40 mg pravastatin/day. Three times deuterium labeled L-leucine (3D-leucine) was given as a primed bolus constant infusion (bolus: 1340 microg/kg; infusion: 22 microg/kg per h), and tracer uptake into HDL apoA-I was determined by gas chromatography (GC)-mass-spectrometry (MS). In the healthy subjects HDL-cholesterol increased by 13% and apoA-I increased by 12% under pravastatin treatment. The HDL in the CAD patient decreased by 3% and apoA-I increased by 2%. Prior to drug treatment the mean apoA-I fractional synthetic rate (FSR) was 0.194 per day (S.D. +/- 0.02) and apoA-I production rate (PR) was 10.8 mg/kg per day (S.D. +/- 2.1). The CAD patient had a FSR of 0.219 per day and a PR of 10.6 mg/kg per day. After treatment with pravastatin the mean apoA-I FSR was 0.204 per day (S.D. +/- 0.02) and apoA-I PR was 12.5 mg/kg per day (S.D. +/- 1.5) in the healthy subjects. Despite only minor changes of HDL and apoA-I in the CAD patient, there were significant changes of FSR (0.267 per day) and PR (13.1 mg/kg per day) with pravastatin treatment. The in vivo kinetic data demonstrate an increased FSR of apoA-I. The increase in apoA-I is due to an increased PR of apoA-I. This study demonstrates increased production of HDL apoA-I as the metabolic cause of the increase in HDL and apoA-I levels under inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase in man.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10381298
Monocytes are recruited as the principal inflammatory cells into the atherosclerotic lesion. In a previous study we demonstrated that a low HDL-cholesterol and the apo E4 allele are associated with an increased proportion of blood monocytes that are characterized by a high expression of Fcgamma-RIIIa (CD16), a dim expression of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) receptor (CD14) and a high expression of beta1- and beta2-integrins (Rothe et al. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Cell Biol 1996;16:1437-1447). In this study, 79 hypercholesterolemic patients were treated either with the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor fluvastatin in combination with diet or with placebo and diet in a double-blind and randomized multicenter study, and monitored for the potential effects on the phenotype of peripheral blood monocytes. At baseline, in the whole group of hypercholesterolemic patients the population size of these more mature monocytes (CD14dimCD16+) was positively correlated to triglyceride (P = 0.003) and total serum cholesterol levels (P = 0.012) confirming our previous study. Fluvastatin treatment for 52 weeks was associated with a 24.2% reduction in LDL-cholesterol (P < 0.001) as well as a 40.7% decrease in the expression density of CD14 on all monocytes (P = 0.027). A 24.5% decrease (P < 0.001) of the population of less differentiated CD14brightCD16- monocytes and an 83.1% increase (P = 0.029) of the population of more differentiated CD14dimCD16+ monocytes further confirmed this modification of the phenotype of peripheral blood monocytes. The positive pre-study correlation of the CD14dimCD16+ monocyte subset to the serum cholesterol concentration, but inverse changes of both parameters under fluvastatin therapy, in conclusion indicate that fluvastatin exerts an as yet uncharacterized immunomodulatory effect on either monocyte maturation and differentiation, or extravasation which may also depend on the endothelial phenotype that is independent of the change in serum lipids.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10381299
The primary objective of the present study was to investigate the cholesterol-lowering effect of fluvastatin on the incidence of cardiac events in hyperlipidaemic patients with symptomatic, clinically-diagnosed (exercise-ECG) coronary heart disease (CHD) during 1 year of treatment. Exercise tolerance, incidence of angina pectoris episodes, use of anti-anginal medication and intimal-medial-thickness (IMT subgroup) of the A. carotis were secondary endpoints. In the double-blind trial a total of 365 male and female patients with stable symptomatic CHD and a low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) above 160 mg/dl on a lipid-lowering diet were randomised to fluvastatin 40 mg (o.a.d. or b.i.d.) or placebo for 1 year. Fluvastatin lowered total cholesterol by 17% and LDL-C by 27%. There was a significantly lower incidence of cardiac events (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, unstable angina pectoris) in the fluvastatin group (3 events) as compared to the placebo group (10 events) (P < 0.05). Exercise tolerance improved and the incidence of angina pectoris episodes decreased in both groups, but more pronounced on fluvastatin (n.s.). Exercise-ECG discontinuation due to angina pectoris and ST-segment depression decreased in the fluvastatin group by 55.6 and 70.9%, respectively, and in the placebo group by 39.6 and 46.5% (n.s.). At baseline, a subgroup of 76 patients showed a mean IMT value of 0.73 mm which remained uninfluenced in the fluvastatin and the placebo groups. Fluvastatin was safe and well tolerated. In conclusion, patients with symptomatic CHD get cardiovascular benefit from lipid-lowering therapy with fluvastatin even during the first year of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10381854
A low-saturated, low-cholesterol diet is important in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia in patients with coronary heart disease. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of a very low fat diet to achieve a targeted serum low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level (</=2.59mmol x l-1) in outpatients with coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10382332
Calcium antagonists are widely used in the treatment of hypertension. However, few endpoint studies with calcium antagonists have been done to prove reduction in hypertensive complications. Results of the STONE, SYST-EUR and SYST-CHINA studies show that long-acting calcium antagonists are effective compared to placebo, especially in patients with isolated systolic hypertension and diabetes. Ongoing prospective and randomized trials like STOP II, INSIGHT, NORDIL, ALLHAT and ASCOT will clarify whether calcium antagonists are more effective than well-proven diuretics and betablockers. ASCOT will test the hypothesis that amlodipine is more efficacious than atenolol in preventing cardiac complications in 18,000 hypertensive patients with high coronary risk including diabetes (among them, 2,000 in Norway). The study is also randomizing the patients in a factorial design to either atorvastatin or placebo, testing the so-called lipid hypothesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385458
A program designed to increase the percentage of patients at a Department of Veterans Affairs health system who meet their cholesterol goals as recommended by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) is described, and baseline results are reported. Patients with an active prescription for pravastatin between February 4 and June 4, 1997, were identified for conversion to simvastatin by means of the Pravastatin-to-Simvastatin Conversion Lipid-Optimization Program; 1361 patients were eligible for conversion. Each patient was mailed a survey for determining risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) and NCEP-recommended low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol goal and was asked to provide a fasting blood sample for determination of lipid profile, liver function, and serum creatine phosphokinase concentration. The patients were asked to make a follow-up laboratory visit six to seven weeks after they had started taking simvastatin. The percentage change from baseline and the percentage of patients who meet their LDL cholesterol goal before and after the conversion will be determined. A total of 1115 patients were converted to simvastatin. Only 35.4% of patients taking pravastatin to prevent a second CHD-related event met or exceeded their LDL cholesterol goal. Only 36.2% of patients with two or more CHD risk factors who were taking pravastatin for primary prevention met or exceeded their LDL cholesterol goal. In a veterans population, less than half of patients receiving a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor had LDL cholesterol concentrations that met goals recommended by the NCEP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385491
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385495
Cholesterol lowering reduces coronary events. One mechanism could be improvement of endothelial function. In line with this hypothesis, this study investigates whether cholesterol reduction can result in rapid improvement of endothelial function after acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385497
The NHLBI Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft trial (Post CABG) showed that aggressive compared with moderate lowering of low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) decreased obstructive changes in saphenous vein grafts (SVGs) by 31%.1 Using lovastatin and cholestyramine when necessary, the annually determined mean LDL-C level ranged from 93 to 97 mg/dL in aggressively treated patients and from 132 to 136 mg/dL in the others (P<0.001).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385633
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors have been reported to suppress biliary cholesterol secretion and saturation. It remains unproven whether this is mediated by inhibition of cholesterol synthesis. Therefore, the effect of a long-term administration of pravastatin on cholesterogenesis and on biliary lipid secretion was investigated in seven healthy volunteers. Placebo or 40 mg of pravastatin were taken daily at bedtime for 5 weeks using a double-blind crossover design. During the last week, 12 hours after the last drug intake 0.04 mmol [1-13C]acetate/kg. h and 0.5 g polyethylene glycol 4,000/h were infused intraduodenally for 15 hours. Plasma and duodenal bile samples were collected hourly. Thereafter, the decay of [13C]labeled plasma cholesterol was measured during the following 3 days. The fractional and absolute syntheses of plasma and biliary cholesterol were determined by gas chromatography mass spectrometry using mass isotopomer distribution analysis. At the end of the pravastatin period plasma total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol had decreased by 20% and 24%, respectively. Similarly, pravastatin suppressed biliary secretion rates of cholesterol, total bile acids and phospholipids (P <.05) by 46%, 36%, and 51%. As a consequence, cholesterol saturation index remained unchanged. However, fractional syntheses of cholesterol were comparable (P >.05) on placebo compared with pravastatin with 3.1% versus 4.0% in plasma and 4.3% versus 5.2% in bile after 15 hours, respectively. The mean absolute synthesis rates amounted to 0.3 mg/kg/h on placebo versus 0.4 on pravastatin (P >. 05). In conclusion, the pravastatin-induced reduction of biliary cholesterol secretion is not directly related to an inhibition of cholesterol synthesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385779
Combinations of gemfibrozil and a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG) coenzyme A reductase inhibitor show promise in treating mixed lipid abnormalities. However, concern regarding the risk of myopathy and hepatic toxicity has limited the use of this combination. To determine the long-term safety and efficacy of this combination, we prospectively identified all patients placed on a combination of gemfibrozil and any HMG reductase inhibitor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10385780
Type III hyperlipoproteinemia is characterized by the accumulation of chylomicron and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) remnants. Individuals with this disorder have a high risk of premature atherosclerosis, and hypolipidemic drugs are useful in their management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10386503
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10387386
To evaluate the impact of a therapeutic interchange from pravastatin to lovastatin on treatment outcomes, quality of life, patient satisfaction, and costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10389000
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10391399
To assess the feasibility of an intensive lipid-lowering strategy in diabetic subjects pursuing target plasma lipid levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10391420
Meta-analyses are key components of evidence-based decision making. The numbers of meta-analyses published in different areas of health care increased dramatically during the past 10 years. Many of them covered different pharmacologic interventions, making them useful resources to clinical pharmacists. Although a well-conducted meta-analysis may be valuable, a poorly conducted one may have false conclusions and thus incorrectly alter a clinician's recommendations. Several key concepts must be considered when appraising meta-analyses of pharmacologic interventions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10393380
Thirty-one renal transplant recipients, submitted to treatment with cyclosporin in association with other immunosuppressive agents, were also treated for 9 months with two hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, simvastatin (10 mg/day) or pravastatin (20 mg/day), for concomitant hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia. Both drugs significantly decreased total cholesterol and triglyceride serum levels, but they did not modify whole-blood trough concentrations of polyclonal and monoclonal cyclosporin or polyclonal/monoclonal cyclosporin ratio. No alterations of the clinical and laboratory parameters investigated were found. The results of this study show the efficacy and safety of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors in the treatment of hyperlipidemia in kidney transplant patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10393675
Time to treatment with thrombolytic therapy is a critical determinant of mortality in acute myocardial infarction. Little is known about the relationship between the time to treatment with direct coronary angioplasty and clinical outcome. The objectives of this study were to determine both the time required to perform direct coronary angioplasty in the Global Use of Strategies to Open Occluded Arteries in Acute Coronary Syndromes (GUSTO-IIb) trial and its relationship to clinical outcome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10395630
Percutaneous coronary revascularization is widely used in improving symptoms and exercise performance in patients with ischemic heart disease and stable angina pectoris. In this study, we compared percutaneous coronary revascularization with lipid-lowering treatment for reducing the incidence of ischemic events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10399983
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10399998
This analysis was carried out to determine if revascularized patients derive benefit from the 3-hydroxy-3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor pravastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10404843
Reduction in plasma lipids has been recognized as one of the primary cardiovascular risk reduction strategies in the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD). The primary end points of TARGET TANGIBLE were the safety (adverse events and laboratory measurements) and efficacy (responder rates) of therapy with atorvastatin versus simvastatin with the aim of achieving low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowering to < or =100 mg/dl (2.6 mmol/L). A total of 3,748 CHD patients with LDL cholesterol levels > or =130 mg/dl (3.4 mmol/L) entered a run-in diet phase of 6 weeks without any lipid-lowering drug therapy. At the end of the diet phase, 2,856 patients met the lipid criteria and were randomized to active treatment for 14 weeks. Patients received 10 to 40 mg of either drug in an optional titration design at 2:1 randomization for atorvastatin versus simvastatin. Adverse event rates were statistically equivalent (p<0.01) for simvastatin (35.7%) and for atorvastatin patients (36.3%). Both drugs were well tolerated; <5% of patients in both groups were withdrawn due to adverse events. In all, 37 atorvastatin patients (2%) and 27 simvastatin patients (3%) had serious adverse events. Drug-related side effects (elevations in creatine kinase, liver enzymes) occurred in both groups at similar rates with 10 atorvastatin patients (0.5%) and 5 simvastatin patients (0.5%) presenting confirmed transaminase elevations >3 x the upper limit of the normal range. Significantly fewer patients in the atorvastatin group (n = 724) required titration to 40 mg compared with the simvastatin group (n = 514) (38% vs. 54%, respectively; p<0.001). Atorvastatin resulted in a significantly greater number of patients reaching the LDL cholesterol goal than those treated with simvastatin, with 67% of atorvastatin patients and 53% of simvastatin patients reaching the target LDL cholesterol level of < or =100 mg/dl (2.6 mmol/L) (p<0.001). Both atorvastatin and simvastatin are safe for use by patients in the secondary prevention of CHD, with patients in both drug groups having similar adverse event rates. Despite the use of concomitant medications there was no drug-induced rhabdomyolysis with either atorvastatin or simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10404924
To review the evidence for clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of proven medications in the treatment and prevention of myocardial infarction (MI) in older patients; to summarize Canadian data on treatment patterns and clinical outcomes for younger and older patients with coronary heart disease; to explore the reasons for gaps between best care, based on the evidence of efficacy from trials, and usual care, based on the population effectiveness audits; and to explore potential approaches to closing the care gaps.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10407502
Twenty-five heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemic patients treated with LDL-apheresis and drugs and 11 patients treated with drugs underwent follow-up angiography 2.3 years later. One-hundred thirteen lesions were measured by quantitative angiography. Mean LDL-cholesterol levels during the trial were 140 +/- 34 mg/dl in the apheresis group and 170 +/- 58 mg/dl (P < 0.05) in the control group. The mean changes in minimal lumen diameter of lesions were +0.19 +/- 0.30 mm (improved) in the apheresis group (n = 76) and -0.44 +/- 0.40 mm (worsened) in the control group (n = 37) (P < 0.0001). When progression and regression were defined as a change in minimal lumen diameter of +/- 0.67 mm, in the apheresis group, two (8%) patients had progression, 19 (76%) stayed unchanged and four (16%) had regression, but in the control group seven (64%) patients had progression and four (36%) stayed unchanged. The frequency of regression or no change was significantly higher in the apheresis group than in the control group (P < 0.004). Intensive cholesterol lowering therapy with LDL-apheresis and lipid lowering drugs can achieve a substantial decrease in LDL-cholesterol levels to induce regression of coronary lesions in familial hypercholesterolemic patients with advanced coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10407505
Mutations in human lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene are potential risk factors for susceptibility to coronary artery disease (CAD). The objectives of this study were to determine the influence LPL mutations Asn291Ser and Ser447Ter on plasma lipid levels, regression and progression of CAD, clinical events rate, and response to fluvastatin therapy in the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS) population. LCAS is a double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study designed to test the influence of fluvastatin on progression or regression of CAD. The Asn291Ser and Ser447Ter genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction enzyme digestion. Fasting plasma lipid profiles were measured and quantitative coronary angiography was performed at baseline and 2.5 years following randomization. Fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events during the follow-up period were recorded. A total of 4% (14/363) and 18% (62/352) of the subjects had the Asn291Ser and Ser447Ter mutations, respectively. Overall, there was no statistically association between the Asn291Ser and Ser447Ter mutations and the baseline or final mean plasma levels of lipids, number of coronary lesions, total occlusions, the mean minimal lumen diameter (MLD) stenoses and the clinical events rate. However, patients with the Ser447Ter variant had a slightly higher baseline high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) level (46.2 +/- 12 vs 43.2 +/- 11, P = 0.057), less increase in plasma HDL levels in response to fluvastatin therapy (3 vs 11%, P = 0.056) and a higher cardiovascular events rate (23 vs 13%, P = 0.056). Thus, the Ser447Ter variant had a modest influence on plasma HDL levels and the rate of cardiovascular events. These changes were of borderline statistical significance. Neither the Ser447Ter nor the Asn291Ser mutation had a major impact on susceptibility to CAD, progression or regression of CAD, clinical events rate or response to fluvastatin therapy in LCAS population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10408031
The CIS was undertaken with the aim to evaluate the effects of lipid modifications on angiographic progression and regression of CAD in patients with CAD and hypercholesterolemia. The design included a multicenter randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled comparison, with target and safety limits for adjusting the trial medication depending on the LDL cholesterol level (LDL-C) achieved, i.e., up to 40 mg of simvastatin (S) or placebo (P) daily, add-on medication (up to 3 x 4 g Colestyramin), and diet counselling. Male patients, average age 49 (< or = 56) years, were included with angiographic CAD and a screening total cholesterol of 207-350 mg/dl, who were not due to undergo coronary bypass surgery or PTCA, who did not suffer from serious other disease (e.g., diabetes mellitus), and who had not undergone coronary bypass surgery previously.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10408999
The objectives of the study were to analyze 1) compliance with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, 2) the relationship between treatment compliance and sociodemographic, clinical, and psychological criteria, and 3) the effect of raising patients' awareness through distribution of an information notice. The results analyzed in this article compare the noncompliant and compliant population independently of awareness. This open-label study was conducted in two randomized parallel groups: a control group that received the information normally given by the practitioners, and an awareness group that received specific informational brochures on diet and cardiovascular risk factors and the reasons for the treatment. Male and female patients (n = 3845) aged 18 to 75 years with primary hypercholesterolemia (type IIa and IIb), not taking a cholesterol-lowering drug or for whom an ongoing treatment was poorly tolerated or ineffective, were to be included. Cholesterol levels had to be greater than 250 mg/dL (or 200 mg/dL if previous coronary history) and triglyceride levels less than 350 mg/dL. A total of 2888 subjects (75%) were defined as compliant (taking more than 90% of the prescription) and 957 (25%) noncompliant. Both populations are identical for age, sex ratio, and different risk factors, with the exception of diabetes. The adverse effects in noncompliant subjects were very clearly different, with an overrepresentation of gastrointestinal and neurologic effects and the noncompliant patients more frequently having more than one adverse effect. Noncompliant patients had an identical duration of follow-up, and the number of patients claiming to have a symptom related to hypercholesterolemia, self-evaluation of cardiovascular risk level, and source of knowledge about cholesterol and diet was similar in both groups. In contrast, in the noncompliant group, there were a larger number of symptomatic patients who thought the drug did not improve the symptoms. In practice, these results show that physicians should systematically evaluate compliance by looking for and analyzing adverse effects and by reassuring the patient when these effects are minor or probably unrelated to the treatment. Diabetics and polymedicated patients deserve special attention in this regard.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10411845
Elevated plasma concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP) are associated with increased cardiovascular risk. We evaluated whether long-term therapy with pravastatin, an agent that reduces cardiovascular risk, might alter levels of this inflammatory parameter.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10414931
Shared care is increasingly being advocated as a way of managing patients with diabetes. While this approach has been supported by clinical trials, the success of shared care in 'real life' is not well established. If health care professionals leave undone what they think is done by others, shared care can become neglected care. Follow up of 200 'shared care' patients who had been referred to the Royal Prince Alfred Diabetes Centre, Sydney, Australia on two or more occasions between October 1995 and September 1998 showed that the majority of specialist recommendations regarding metabolic control (76%), referral to an ophthalmologist (73%) and blood pressure treatment (76%) had been implemented by the primary care physician; however, they were less likely to implement recommendations regarding lipid treatment (55%). The median HbA1c (7.6% vs. 8.4%; P = 0.04), cholesterol (5.6 vs. 6.8 mmol/l; P = 0.0005) and triglyceride (2.0 vs. 2.8 mmol/l; P = 0.05) levels for patients in whom recommendations had been implemented were significantly lower at the time of second referral. Doctors registered with the Diabetes Shared Care Programme and those who wrote longer letters were more likely to implement recommendations than their counterparts (87.2%, versus 70.9%; chi2 = 4.12, 1 df; P = 0.04 and 56 words (inter-quartile range (IQR): 36-71) versus 45 words (IQR: 23-59); P = 0.02, respectively). It therefore appears that diabetes care can be well provided by a shared care approach. However, further monitoring of different shared care models is warranted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10419438
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10422491
Hyperleptinemia is considered to be one of predictors of early atherosklerosis complications. This stimulated us to investigate differences between leptinemia in persons with accelerated atherosclerosis and leptinemia in probands without atherosclerosis complications. The study also verified whether leptinemia and its relationship to other anthropometric and biochemical parameters can differ in hypolipemic-treated probands and hypolipemic-untreated individuals. We examined 89 probands with accelerated atherosclerosis. The controls were 20 persons without any signs of accelerated atherosclerosis. Probands with accelerated atherosclerosis had a slight hyperglycemia and were slightly obese, but they did not meet criteria of metabolic cardiovascular syndrome. No significant differences between both groups under study were found in terms of anthropometric and biochemical parameters (BMI, % body fat, glycemia, insulin, C-peptide, intact proinsulin, total proinsulin cholesterol, HDL, triglycerides, LDL, homeostatic model of insulin secretion and resistance). Leptin concentration was not different as well. Stratification into males and females showed that women had a significantly higher leptinemia and fat tissue mass. Other biochemical parameters were similar in both groups. We suppose that in individuals without signs of metabolic syndrome, leptinemia does not belong among predictors of accelerated atherosclerosis. The accelerated atherosclerosis persons were then divided into subgroups according to medication (28 probands--pravastatin Lipostat 20, 15 probands--phenofibrate Lipanthyl 200M, 9 probands--simvastatin Zocor 20, 47 probands--no hypolipemic medication). No significant differences between the groups were found in terms of the analysed anthropometric and biochemical parameters, except leptinemia. The pravastatin-medicated probands had a significantly lower leptinemia (significant at 99% significance level) which was evidently sex-related than other patients. The pravastatin-administered persons showed no correlation between leptinemia and body fat mass (in contrast to other groups where such a correlation was highly statistically significant). These findings can be explained by a still unclear effect of pravastatin on insulin metabolism and on other factors involved in leptin synthesis and elimination. Thus, a new therapeutic effect of pravastatin can be supposed. This may account for a highly favourable effect of pravastatin on reduced manifestations of atherosclerosis complications event at a low LDL cholesterol decrease (particularly in persons with metabolic cardiovascular syndrome).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10423597
Hypercholesterolemia is associated with accelerated atherosclerosis in transplant recipients. It has been notoriously difficult to treat pharmacologically due to the complex interactions that occur with lipid-lowering drugs and immunosuppressive therapies. The purpose of the current study was to compare the efficacy and safety of a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (lovastatin, 20 mg/d) with a fibric acid derivative (gemfibrozil, 600 mg twice a day). We used a randomized, crossover design in 18 solid organ transplant recipients who followed the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Guidelines diet for 8 weeks and had persistent elevations of total cholesterol (>240 mg/dL). Each patient received each therapy for a minimum of 8 weeks (mean 14.2 +/- 2.4, range 8-20 weeks). The participants had stable allograft function and were treated with a standard immunosuppressive regimen containing cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine. Lovastatin therapy reduced the mean total cholesterol by 15.5% (271.9 mg/dL to 229.9 mg/dL; p = 0.02) and the mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol by 22.7% (178.2 mg/dL to 137.8 mg/dL; p = 0.07). There were no significant changes in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol or triglycerides. Conversely, when these same patients were treated with gemfibrozil, the mean total cholesterol decreased by 7.9% (271.9 mg/dL to 250.5 mg/dL; p = NS) and the LDL cholesterol decreased by 5.1% (178.2 mg/dL to 169.1 mg/dL; p = NS). In addition, the mean triglyceride concentration decreased significantly by 46.1% (234.0 mg/dL to 126.3 mg/dL; p = 0.002) and the mean HDL cholesterol increased 15.4% (48.8 mg/dL to 56.3 mg/dL; p = 0.09). In all patients, the serum creatinine, hepatocellular enzymes, and creatinine phosphokinase remained stable. Lovastatin was discontinued in three patients for myalgias, one patient with unexplained anemia, and one patient with parasthesias. These results suggest that lovastatin and gemfibrozil are both safe and efficacious in transplant patients. However, neither therapy alone completely corrects abnormalities of high LDL cholesterol and low HDL cholesterol in transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10423661
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10428291
Specific treatment that primarily reduces low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc) levels improves survival of patients with pre-existing vascular disease by 20-30%. Failure to produce a more marked improvement in outcome is most likely explained by: (1) the observation from angiographic studies that established atherosclerotic vascular disease (AVD) is largely irreversible with current therapy and (2) other important factors cause AVD besides LDLc. One such risk factor predicting development of AVD is the atherogenic lipoprotein phenotype (ALP), comprising abnormalities of triglyceride enriched lipoproteins, high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc) and small dense LDL particles. Despite strong links between the ALP and AVD, the mechanism(s) linking these relatively subtle lipoprotein abnormalities to vascular disease is poorly understood. Recent evidence suggests that a procoagulant and proinflammatory state develops within the vasculature, perhaps mediating a link between the ALP and AVD. The purpose of this review is to discuss mechanisms by which the ALP, and specifically, certain triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, may cause AVD by adverse affects on platelet function, coagulation and vascular inflammation. All rights reserved.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10428737
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10431658
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10431661
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) [alpha, delta (beta) and gamma] form a subfamily of the nuclear receptor gene family. All PPARs are, albeit to different extents, activated by fatty acids and derivatives; PPAR-alpha binds the hypolipidemic fibrates whereas antidiabetic glitazones are ligands for PPAR-gamma. PPAR-alpha activation mediates pleiotropic effects such as stimulation of lipid oxidation, alteration in lipoprotein metabolism and inhibition of vascular inflammation. PPAR-alpha activators increase hepatic uptake and the esterification of free fatty acids by stimulating the fatty acid transport protein and acyl-CoA synthetase expression. In skeletal muscle and heart, PPAR-alpha increases mitochondrial free fatty acid uptake and the resulting free fatty acid oxidation through stimulating the muscle-type carnitine palmitoyltransferase-I. The effect of fibrates on the metabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins is due to a PPAR-alpha dependent stimulation of lipoprotein lipase and an inhibition of apolipoprotein C-III expressions, whereas the increase in plasma HDL cholesterol depends on an overexpression of apolipoprotein A-I and apolipoprotein A-II. PPARs are also expressed in atherosclerotic lesions. PPAR-alpha is present in endothelial and smooth muscle cells, monocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages. It inhibits inducible nitric oxide synthase in macrophages and prevents the IL-1-induced expression of IL-6 and cyclooxygenase-2, as well as thrombin-induced endothelin-1 expression, as a result of a negative transcriptional regulation of the nuclear factor-kappa B and activator protein-1 signalling pathways. PPAR activation also induces apoptosis in human monocyte-derived macrophages most likely through inhibition of nuclear factor-kappa B activity. Therefore, the pleiotropic effects of PPAR-alpha activators on the plasma lipid profile and vascular wall inflammation certainly participate in the inhibition of atherosclerosis development observed in angiographically documented intervention trials with fibrates.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10436251
Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is frequently associated with pancreatic enzyme abnormalities. In order to determine the main factors that lead to this increase, serum total amylase (TA), pancreatic amylase (PA), lipase (L) and leukocyte elastase (LE), an early predictor of acute pancreatitis, were measured in four groups of patients on admission. Group 1 consisted of 52 patients with DKA (age: 41.9 +/- 19.2 years; blood glucose (Glc): 27.4 +/- 11.5 mmol/L; pH: 7.20 +/- 0.16; plasma bicarbonate: 10.5 +/- 6.2 mmol/L; blood urea nitrogen (BUN): 0.60 +/- 0.44 g/L; HbA(1C): 12.5% +/- 2.8%). Group 2 consisted of 90 patients with poorly controlled non-ketotic diabetes (age: 53.4 +/- 16.0; Glc: 14.3 +/- 0.6; HCO(3)(-): 26.6 +/- 3.2; BUN: 0.38 +/- 0.20; HbA(1C): 11.3 +/- 2.1). Group 3 consisted of 22 patients with well-controlled diabetes (age: 53.7 +/- 12.8; Glc: 10. 1 +/- 5.2; HCO(3)(-): 27.4 +/- 3.8; BUN: 0.36 +/- 0.19; HbA(1C): 6.8 +/- 0.8). Group 4 (controls) comprised 27 non-diabetic patients (age: 46.0 +/- 15.0; Glc: 4.9 +/- 0.5; HCO(3)(-): 28.4 +/- 2.5; BUN: 0.30 +/- 0.16; HbA(1C): 5.2 +/- 0.7) (means +/- SD). Increased enzyme activities were more frequent in group 1 (TA: 30.7; PA: 27.0; L: 36.5; LE: 73%) than in groups 2 (TA: 8.9; PA: 7.1; L: 8.9; LE: 45. 5%), 3 (TA: 13.6; PA: 9.0; L: 18.1; LE: 31.8%) and 4 (TA: 7.0; PA: 3. 0; L: 0.0; LE: 29.6%). Mean serum enzyme activities were significantly different in the 4 groups (ANOVA, P < 0.01) and were higher in group 1 than in groups 2, 3 and 4 (Student's t-test; group 1 vs 2 or 3 or 4: P < 0.001). In groups 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 (all patients), the four enzymes correlated with one another and also with Glc, BUN and HCO(3)(-) (P < 0.001). In group 1, TA correlated negatively with HCO(3)(-) (P < 0.001) and pH (P < 0.05); PA and L correlated positively with Glc and BUN (P < 0.01) and negatively with HCO(3)(-) (respectively, p < 0.01 and 0.05). PA correlated positively with pH (P < 0.01); LE correlated with Glc (P < 0.05) and BUN (P < 0.01). In conclusion, this study suggests that the serum levels of pancreatic enzymes increase with the degree of diabetic disequilibrium, and mainly correlate with metabolic factors such as hyperglycaemia, dehydration and acidosis. Increased pancreatic enzyme activities in patients with DKA, even in combination with abdominal pain, should not be diagnosed as acute pancreatitis; this could be important, particularly for younger clinicians.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10436712
Policosanol is a new cholesterol lowering agent derived from sugar cane.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10439497
To elucidate the effect on blood pressure and blood lipids of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril), and a beta-receptor blocking agent (atenolol), given alone or in combination with a cholesterol reducing drug, the beta-hydroxy-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor pravastatin, in patients who were also encouraged to improve their lifestyle.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10441090
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10443573
Many studies have shown that loss of endothelium-derived nitric oxide is a major factor of ischemic episodes in patients with coronary artery disease and there is increasing evidence to suggest that nitric oxide might exert antiatherosclerotic actions. Based on these concepts, the results of animal studies on the effects of lipid lowering drugs, antioxidants, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, Ca2+ channel blockers, estrogens and agents which modulate nitric oxide bioavailability are presented and compared to the results of patient studies and clinical trials. In spite of encouraging results obtained with antioxidants in animals, clinical trials could only show a clear positive effect of vitamin E treatment on the outcome of cardiovascular disease. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors can ameliorate endothelial dysfunction in coronary heart disease, but their impact on disease progression remains unclear. There is evidence that estrogen replacement therapy in post-menopausal women may increase the bioavailability of nitric oxide. Finally, improved endothelial function and plaque stability clearly contribute to the clinical benefits of lipid lowering interventions, statins in particular. Taken together, these studies lend support to the concept that improving endothelial function and nitric oxide release might serve as valuable elements in the prevention or therapy of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10446437
There are tremendous clinical interest and speculation about the impact of reversing endothelial dysfunction. This paper reviews information from patient studies that have assessed the effect of chronic antioxidant use on endothelial dysfunction. A search of MEDLINE and Current Contents online, complemented by detailed analysis of references in the papers identified, was used to identify all studies pertaining to patients treated with oral antioxidants to modify endothelial dysfunction. Studies of single acute doses were excluded. Endothelium-mediated end points were vascular responses in conduit or resistance vessels, endothelial cell-monocyte interaction and measures of soluble adhesion molecules. Positive effects on conduit vessel dilation, endothelial cell-monocyte interactions and soluble adhesion molecules were common. Except for one study, negative effects were noted in resistance vessels. Further trials are required to clarify and define the impact of these findings on clinical outcome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10447220
Lifibrol is a powerful cholesterol-lowering drug of unknown mechanism of action. This investigation was carried out to determine whether the major action of lifibrol is to enhance clearance of low density lipoproteins (LDL) through the LDL-receptor pathway, and if so, whether the drug exerts its action by altering the excretion of bile acids (acidic steroids), the absorption of cholesterol, or the synthesis of cholesterol. In a first study, in two patients with complete absence of LDL receptors, lifibrol therapy had essentially no effect on plasma LDL concentrations; in two others who had a marked reduction in LDL-receptor activity, response to the drug was attenuated. These findings suggest that lifibrol requires an intact LDL-receptor pathway to exert its action. In a second study, in patients with primary moderate hypercholesterolemia, isotope kinetic studies showed that lifibrol enhanced the fractional catabolic rate of LDL-apolipoprotein B (apo B), but had no effect on transport rates of LDL; these observations likewise support the probability that lifibrol acts mainly to increase the activity of the LDL-receptor pathway. However, in a third study in hypercholesterolemic patients, lifibrol therapy failed to increase acidic steroid excretion, inhibit cholesterol absorption, or reduce net cholesterol balance. Furthermore, lifibrol treatment did not significantly reduce urinary excretion of mevalonic acid. In contrast, in a parallel study, simvastatin therapy, which is known to inhibit cholesterol synthesis, gave the expected decrease in net cholesterol balance and reduction in urinary excretion of mevalonic acid. Thus, lifibrol, like statins, appears to increase the activity of LDL receptors; but in contrast to findings with statins, it was not possible to detect a significant decreased synthesis of cholesterol, either from balance studies or from urinary excretion of mevalonic acid. This finding raises the possibility that lifibrol activates the LDL-receptor pathway through a different mechanisms which remains to be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10448609
Plasma lipids play a key role in the development of atherosclerosis. Recent trial data support early identification of asymptomatic adults with high-risk lipid profiles for primary prevention of coronary heart disease. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors have been shown to reduce coronary events in both asymptomatic adults and those with known coronary heart disease. The optimal plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol for secondary coronary prevention remains controversial. The Second Report of the Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel II), published in 1993 by the National Cholesterol Education Program, recommends guidelines for evaluation and diagnosis of lipids. Subsequently, several clinical trials have identified populations benefiting from pharmacologic intervention and new approaches to the management of lipid disorders. Consequently, these guidelines should be applied with the interval evidence in mind.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10448768
The incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) peaks in the elderly population. In secondary and primary prevention trials, cholesterol-lowering therapy reduces risk for CHD in both older and younger participants. This benefit, therefore, can be extended to the elderly.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10448784
To determine the risk of cardiovascular events and death in patients receiving statin treatment for cholesterol regulation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10455083
To estimate the cost effectiveness of statin treatment in preventing coronary heart disease (CHD) and to examine the effect of the CHD risk level targeted and the cost of statins on the cost effectiveness of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10456002
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10456618
Lipid-lowering therapy reduces cardiac events to an extent that is disproportionate to the small degree of regression of coronary atherosclerosis observed among hyperlipidemic patients. We prospectively investigated the effects of lipid reduction using simvastatin on the endothelial dysfunction and hypercoagulability found in hyperlipidemic patients. We measured levels of coagulation factors [factor VII (FVII) coagulant activity (FVIIc), FVII antigen (FVIIAg), activated FVII (FVIIa), and fibrinogen], and markers of coagulation activation [prothrombin fragment 1 + 2 (F1 + 2)] and endothelial cell dysfunction [von Willebrand factor (vWF)] in 20 hyperlipidemic patients, 20 hypertensive patients, and 20 normotensive normolipidemic controls. The levels of FVIIa, FVIIc, FVIIAg, F1 + 2, and vWF were all higher in hyperlipidemic patients, but only FVIIa, F1 + 2, and vWF levels were higher in hypertensive patients than in controls. We measured the above parameters in 13 hyperlipidemic patients before and after 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months of simvastatin therapy and compared these values with those in 15 hypertensive patients at baseline and after 12 and 24 months. The median (25th-75th percentile) level of total cholesterol was decreased from 259 (255-278) to 206 (176-220) mg/dl after 1 month of simvastatin therapy and this reduction persisted for 2 years. The plasma level of vWF [136% (113-158%)] was not changed after 1 month of administration of simvastatin [132% (115-153%)], but was decreased after 3 months of treatment [114% (96-128%), P<0.01]. This decrease also persisted for 2 years during simvastatin therapy and both of these reductions were significant, compared with levels in hypertensive patients. In contrast, levels of fibrinogen, FVIIc, FVIIAg, FVIIa, and F1 + 2 did not change throughout the 2 years of simvastatin therapy. We conclude that lipid reduction using simvastatin corrects endothelial cell dysfunction but not hypercoagulability in hyperlipidemic patients. The improvement in endothelial cell function brought about by lipid-lowering therapy might contribute to the reduction in cardiac events within a relatively short time period in hyperlipidemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10460940
The influence of fluvastatin, a liver-selective, competitive inhibitor of the 3-hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, on the lipoprotein metabolism was investigated in 9 patients with nephrotic syndrome. All patients had biopsy-proven renal disease as cause of their nephrotic syndrome and exhibited severe hyperlipidemia [baseline: serum cholesterol 358 +/- 46 mg/dl (9.3 mmol/l), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 236 +/- 18 mg/dl (6.1 mmol/l), triglycerides 333 +/- 28 mg/dl (3.8 mmol/l), and lipoprotein Lp(a) 46 +/- 11 mg/dl]. After 1 year of 40 mg of fluvastatin, significant reductions of total cholesterol by 31% to 242 +/- 26 mg/dl (6.3 mmol/l) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 29% to 162 +/- 12 mg/dl (4.2 mmol/l) were observed. Furthermore, triglyceride values were also lowered significantly by 19% to 268 +/- 21 mg/dl (3.1 mmol/l). Lipoprotein Lp(a) and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol remained unchanged by fluvastatin. These improvements in lipid profile were maintained during the entire follow-up period of 1 year. There were no adverse events, and the slight increase in serum creatinine observed during the study was considered to be due to the primary renal disease. In conclusion, long- term administration of fluvastatin in patients with nephrotic syndrome appears to be an effective and safe treatment of the hyperlipidemia associated with this disorder.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10463714
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10463718
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10468086
Coronary artery disease is the most common cause of death in the world. Emerging concepts of atherosclerosis imply that atherosclerosis is a diffuse disease, and cannot be definitively treated with local, anatomic interventions, such as coronary artery bypass graft surgery or angioplasty. Cholesterol lowering, on the other hand, has been shown to dramatically lower the rate of both morbid and mortal coronary events. In trials with new statin drugs, coronary risk has been lowered by approximately 30%. Additional risk reduction will require other approaches, including (1) intervention for other risk factors, (2) more aggressive cholesterol lowering, or (3) increased attention to primary prevention. The last requires a combination of public health measures to change harmful diet and life-style patterns as well as case findings to identify and treat at-risk subjects. For all these approaches, measures that will increase compliance by both physicians and patients to regimens with proven benefits are required.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10473485
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10482141
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10482143
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10486692
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10486694
The need to detect coronary atherosclerosis early in its course has been well recognized by clinicians and epidemiologists for decades. The ability to identify populations with a greater prevalence of coronary disease prior to manifestation of illness would greatly reduce cardiac morbidity and mortality. Electron beam computed tomography (EBCT) uniquely combines the characteristics of speed and excellent density resolution that have led to a rebirth of interest in detecting coronary calcium as a means of screening asymptomatic populations for coronary atherosclerosis. Electron beam computed tomography is noninvasive and widely applicable. It can both detect and quantitate the presence of coronary atherosclerosis. A positive test has diagnostic and prognostic significance, predicting future cardiac events and the extent of atherosclerosis, including the probability of obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD). Multiple studies demonstrate a 6- to 35-fold increased risk of developing a cardiac event with elevated calcium scores. A negative test is highly predictive for excluding obstructive CAD. The cost ranges from $300 to $400, similar to that of an exercise treadmill test. Moreover, scanning for coronary calcium does not require injection of contrast medium, requiring no patient preparation or exercise; therefore, a CT technician can perform the study without supervision. The entire procedure takes < 10 min to perform. These features make EBCT a potential screening test for occult CAD in symptomatic and asymptomatic persons.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10487494
Large-scale clinical trials have shown that long-term treatment with lipid-lowering therapy results in a significant reduction in the occurrence of heart failure among patients with coronary artery disease without previous evidence of congestive heart failure, suggesting dyslipidemia may have an adverse effect on left ventricular performance. To examine whether dyslipidemia has a detrimental effect on left ventricular systolic function and whether this effect is dependent on the corresponding severity of coronary atherosclerosis, 114 consecutive patients with stable angina and a positive exercise thallium-201 myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography were studied. All patients underwent measurement of serum lipid profiles, right-sided heart catheterization, left ventriculography, and selective coronary arteriography. Mean serum levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides were 4.5 and 1.4 mmol/l, respectively. In univariate analysis, a significant positive correlation between serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (r = 0.49, P<0.0001) was found. Patients in the lower tertile of serum HDL cholesterol had a significantly lower mean LVEF than those in the upper tertile (55.9+/-15.2 vs. 72.8+/-6.8%, P<0.0001). Stepwise multiple linear regression analysis revealed that LVEF significantly correlated with HDL cholesterol (P<0.0001), the Gensini score (P = 0.008), and diabetes mellitus (P = 0.08) (r = 0.55, P<0.0001). In subgroup analysis of patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries, serum HDL cholesterol was still significantly associated with LVEF. The present study demonstrated an independent association between low HDL cholesterol and subclinical left ventricular systolic dysfunction in Chinese patients with stable angina whose serum levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides were relatively low. Moreover, this correlation remained significant even in patients with normal coronary angiograms, suggesting HDL cholesterol might influence left ventricular systolic performance through extra-atherosclerotic mechanisms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10487500
The effects of atorvastatin (Lipitor) were evaluated in 40 patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). Following a 6 week drug-free baseline period 20 male and 20 female patients were treated with atorvastatin 40 mg once daily (QD) for the initial 6 weeks increasing to 80 mg QD during the following 6 weeks. Atorvastatin 40 and 80 mg resulted in a dose related reduction in LDL cholesterol of 44 and 50% (P<0.001), respectively. The reduction of triglycerides (TG) was 35% (P<0.001) with 40 and 80 mg atorvastatin. The lipoprotein lipase and the hepatic lipase activity decreased dose independently by 13% (P<0.05) and 18% (P<0.01), respectively. In males, a dose independent increase in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentration was observed of 8%, (P<0.05). In females, the HDL cholesterol concentration did not change. Baseline LDL size in the females was significantly larger than in the males, being 268+/-6 A and 264+/-8 A (P<0.05), respectively. In males LDL size increased significantly from 264+/-8 A at baseline to269+/-6 A at 40 mg (P<0.05) and to 270+/-5 A (P<0.05) at 80 mg atorvastatin. In females LDL size did not change upon treatment with atorvastatin 40 and 80 mg QD. In conclusion, atorvastatin has the ability to decrease cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations as well as the activity of both lipoprotein and hepatic lipase activity. Additionally it has a favorable effect on LDL size and HDL cholesterol concentration in male, but not in female FH patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10487795
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10487800
The Cholesterol Lowering Atherosclerosis PTCA Trial (CLAPT) is a prospective, randomized trial with blinded angiographic end-points to assess the effect of 2-year's treatment with lovastatin initiated 4 weeks prior to PTCA, compared to usual care on non-dilated coronary segments and on dilated coronary lesions in male patients with total cholesterol between 200 and 300 mg. dl(-1)who underwent elective PTCA. METHODS and

Abstract for pubmed ID 10488970
Long-term effects of pravastatin and probucol on serum cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) and xanthoma/xanthelasma size were compared. Twenty-three patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and xanthoma/xanthelasma, including 11 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, were treated with pravastatin (20 mg/day) or probucol (1000 mg/day) for 24 months. Serum CETP levels were measured by sandwich ELISA. In 11 patients (six men and five women, 55 +/- 2 [SE] yr) treated with pravastatin, serum cholesterol levels decreased from 262 +/- 13 to 229 +/- 13 mg/dl during the 24-month treatment period (P = 0.05). Serum HDL cholesterol levels were not changed. Serum CETP levels decreased from 2.5 +/- 0.2 to 2.0 +/- 0.2 microg/ml (-21%, P = 0.002). By contrast, in 12 patients (four men and eight women, 57 +/- 4 year) treated with probucol, serum cholesterol levels did not significantly decrease from 236 +/- 11 to 207 +/- 13 mg/dl. Serum HDL cholesterol levels decreased from 44 +/- 2 to 30 +/- 2 mg/dl (P = 0.009). Serum CETP levels increased from 2.3 +/- 0.1 to 2.8 +/- 0.2 microg/ml (+23%, P = 0.02). Xanthelasma regression was found in two of four patients (50%) each treated with pravastatin and probucol, respectively. In contrast, Achilles' tendon xanthoma regressed in four of five patients (80%) treated with pravastatin, but only in two of five patients (40%) treated with probucol. Patients with xanthoma/xanthelasma regression after 2 years treatment had higher baseline levels of serum CETP than those without regression (2.7 +/- 0.2 microg/ml [n = 9] versus 2.1 +/- 0.2 microg/ml [n = 7], P = 0.05). Serial changes in serum CETP levels during treatment with pravastatin and probucol were discordant, but not related to the degree of xanthoma regression. However, higher level of serum HDL3 cholesterol was an independent factor in the smaller size of Achilles' tendon xanthoma at baseline. In addition, higher levels of serum HDL3 triglyceride on lipid-lowering therapy (6 months) appear to be a common predictor of regression of Achilles' tendon xanthoma in the treatment with either pravastatin or probucol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10488971
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10490827
IL-2 deprivation triggers apoptosis in the murine T cell line TS1alphabeta, a process that can be blocked by overexpression of Bcl-2. Here we show that Bcl-2 and Ras proteins interact in mitochondria from TS1alphabeta cells in the presence or absence of IL-2, as evidenced by co-immunoprecipitation. All three Ras proteins, K-, N- and H-Ras, interact with Bcl-2; however, their mitochondrial localization is differentially regulated in IL-2-supplemented or -deprived cells. K-Ras is found in mitochondria only in IL-2-supplemented cells, whereas H-Ras is observed in mitochondria only after IL-2 withdrawal. N-Ras is detected in mitochondria under both experimental conditions. Bcl-2 transfection partially restored K- and N-Ras association with mitochondria in IL-2-deprived cells and rendered H-Ras association independent of IL-2 withdrawal. Inhibitors of Ras posttranslational processing did not alter the IL-2-induced differential pattern of mitochondrial localization. The processed forms of K- and N-Ras associated with mitochondria, although unprocessed H-Ras was also detected in mitochondria from mevastatin-treated cells. These results evidence a distinct behavior among the three Ras proteins in TS1alphabeta cells, depending on IL-2 supply, and suggest homologue-specific roles for Ras proteins in IL-2-dependent events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10492062
A large number of drugs have been shown to affect the metabolism of cyclosporin A (CSA) and, since cyclosporin is characterized by a narrow therapeutic range, the consequences of such drug interactions may often be of clinical importance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10493153
The genetically hypercholesterolemic RICO rat: a good model for testing a food substance or a drug specific for a key enzyme involved in cholesterol metabolism? The genetically hypercholesterolemic RICO rat, whose cholesterolemia is situated between 1.3 and 1.5 mg x mL(-1), possibly reaching 2 mg x mL(-1), after the addition of cholesterol to its food, possesses a different lipoprotein spectrum than man, because approximatively 70% of the plasma cholesterol is carried by HDL (28% of which are carried by the light HDL1 subfraction, rich in apolipoproteinE (apoE). The effects of certain substances in food (carbohydrates, cholesterol, allyldisulfide, etc.) or drugs (ethinylestradiol, streptozotocin, statins, inhibitors of ACAT, etc.) on the cholesterolemia of the rat were studied, in relation to certain important parameters of cholesterol metabolism (LDLr, VLDL liver secretion, activities of lipolytic enzymes: LPL, HL, etc.). The increase in a number of LDL receptors (LDLr) in the RICO rat, induced by ethinylestradiol, streptozotocin, etc., provokes an important decrease in the apoE-rich HDL concentration, filtered out by its receptors. This decrease is observed in man for LDL. Simvastatin, which stimulates LDLr in man and not in rat, lowers the level of LDL in man and has no effect on the cholesterolemia of the RICO rat. In rat and man, the concentration of plasma cholesterol is inversely proportional to the rate of cholesterol synthesis in the organism and to its plasma turnover rate. The concentration of cholesterol in the plasma carried by the HDL1 of the rat, is however, proportional to hepatic cholesterogenesis. This fraction is positively correlated to the activity of hepatic lipase (HL) and negatively to the activity of lipoprotein lipase (LPL), released by heparin. These data demonstrate the importance of the liver and lipolytic enzymes in the intraplasmatic hydrolysis of HDL3 (precursors of HDL1), murine particles that can be considered similar to human LDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10493319
To compare colesevelam hydrochloride (Cholestagel), a nonabsorbed hydrogel with bile acid-sequestering properties, with placebo for its lipid-lowering efficacy, its effects on laboratory and clinical safety parameters, and the incidence of adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10496299
Troglitazone is a new thiazolidinedione oral antidiabetic agent approved for use to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. It is rapidly absorbed with an absolute bioavailability of between 40 and 50%. Food increases the absorption by 30 to 80%. The pharmacokinetics of troglitazone are linear over the clinical dosage range of 200 to 600 mg once daily. The mean elimination half-life ranges from 7.6 to 24 hours, which facilitates a once daily administration regimen. The pharmacokinetics of troglitazone are similar between patients with type 2 diabetes and healthy individuals. In humans, troglitazone undergoes metabolism by sulfation, glucuronidation and oxidation to form a sulfate conjugate (M1), glucuronide conjugate (M2) and quinone metabolite (M3), respectively. M1 and M3 are the major metabolites in plasma, and M2 is a minor metabolite. Age, gender, type 2 diabetes, renal impairment, smoking and race do not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics of troglitazone and its 2 major metabolites. In patients with hepatic impairment the plasma concentrations of troglitazone, M1 and M3 increase by 30%, 4-fold, and 2-fold, respectively. Cholestyramine decreases the absorption of troglitazone by 70%. Troglitazone may enhance the activities of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A and/or transporter(s) thereby reducing the plasma concentrations of terfenadine, cyclosporin, atorvastatin and fexofenadine. It also reduces the plasma concentrations of the oral contraceptive hormones ethinylestradiol, norethindrone and levonorgestrel. Troglitazone does not alter the pharmacokinetics of digoxin, glibenclamide (glyburide) or paracetamol (acetaminophen). There is no pharmacodynamic interaction between troglitazone and warfarin or alcohol (ethanol). Pharmacodynamic modelling showed that improvement in fasting glucose and triglyceride levels increased with dose from 200 to 600 mg. Knowledge of systemic troglitazone exposure within a dose group does not improve the prediction of glucose lowering response or adverse effects beyond those based on the administered dose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10498131
Thrombotic risk in hyperlipidemic women and its response to lipid therapy is unknown. We prospectively studied 28 men and 29 women with high low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol during 6 months of therapy with pravastatin. Women had significantly higher high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (54.2 +/- 1.7 vs 39.5 +/- 2.2 mg/dl, p <0.01), lower prevalence of coronary artery disease (41% vs 67%, p = 0.04), and otherwise similar baseline characteristics compared with men. Both genders achieved a 33% reduction in LDL at 6 weeks (188 +/- 6 to 133 +/- 5 mg/dl) and maintained similar LDL levels throughout the study. Systemic hemostatic markers and thrombus formation under dynamic flow conditions were evaluated at baseline, and at 3 and 6 months of follow-up. Prothrombin fragment F1.2, a marker of thrombin generation, was higher in women versus men at baseline (2.4 +/- 0.2 vs 1.4 +/- 0.3 nmol/L, p = 0.02). The levels decreased in women to 2.0 +/- 0.3 nmol/L at 3 months and to 1.6 +/- 0.2 nmol/L at 6 months (p <0.045, analysis of variance), whereas it remained unchanged in men. Plasminogen activator inhibitor-I significantly decreased at 3 and 6 months of follow-up: by 12.6% and 18.7%, respectively, in women, and by 18.8% and 23.5%, respectively, in men. Similarly, tissue plasminogen activator decreased significantly by 7.4% in women and 11.8% in men at 6 months compared with baseline. Fibrinogen showed an increase in both genders at follow-up. Thrombus formation was similar at baseline between the 2 genders, and decreased at 3 and 6 months compared with baseline by 12.5% and 29.5% in women, and by 18.6% and 19.4% in men (p <0.04 at 6 months vs baseline in both men and women). Other markers, including C-reactive protein, fibrinopeptide A, D-dimer, and factor VIIa, did not differ between genders and did not change with therapy. Thus, despite higher HDL, and lower incidence of coronary disease, women with high LDL had a comparable thrombotic and/or fibrinolytic profile to men and even evidence of increased thrombin generation at baseline. Blood thrombogenicity was reduced with pravastatin in both genders; in addition, thrombin generation was gradually reduced in women to a level similar to that of men by 6 months of follow-up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10498134
Most described modifications of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol share an increase in its negative electric charge; in fact, an electronegative form of LDL can be identified and isolated from plasma. Although the exact nature of the chemical modification of electronegative LDL is still controversial, its toxicity on endothelial cells has been demonstrated. Statins have protective effects against cardiovascular disease that are independent of their lipid-lowering action and which could be due, at least in part, to the prevention of LDL modification. We evaluated the effect of 6 months of simvastatin therapy (40 mg/day) on electronegative LDL proportion and LDL susceptibility to in vitro induced oxidation in 21 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). Eleven normolipemic subjects were analyzed as a control group. Total cholesterol as well as LDL and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and apoprotein B decreased 30% after the first month of therapy, with no further decreases thereafter. LDL susceptibility to oxidation was similar in FH patients and controls and did not change throughout the treatment. Electronegative LDL proportion was 35.1 +/- 9.9% in FH patients and 9.1 +/- 2.4% in control subjects (p <0.0001) but, in contrast to total LDL cholesterol and the rest of lipid parameters, it decreased to 28.6 +/- 9.1% in the third month and to 21.2 +/- 7.7% in the sixth month of therapy. The decrease in these cytotoxic particles may be a relevant mechanism by which simvastatin protects against cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10500066
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (HRIs) were found incidentally to reduce new cases of colon cancer in 2 large clinical trials evaluating coronary events, although most patients in both treatment and control group were taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDs are associated with reduced colon cancer incidence, predominantly by increasing apoptosis. We showed previously that lovastatin induces apoptosis in colon cancer cells. In the present study we evaluated the potential of combining lovastatin with sulindac for colon cancer chemoprevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10500601
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10500602
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10500900
Over the past year, significant new advances have been made in preventive cardiology. New trials of lipid lowering, estrogen therapy, and hypertension control have added to our understanding of the pathophysiology and prevention of coronary atherosclerosis. This review highlights these new trials and provides insight into their applications in the practice of cardiology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10501272
High plasma levels of lipids are an important modifiable risk factor for coronary heart disease, but are not established as a risk factor for stroke. Pathophysiologic evidence that links lipids to major systemic artery disease, and the results of clinical trials of coronary heart disease prevention in relation to lipid-lowering suggest that lipids may play an important role in the causation of stroke. We discuss the controversy concerning plasma lipids as a risk factor for stroke. A clinical trial targeted at lowering levels of lipids with the aim of primary stroke prevention would be a timely and important contribution. Armed with this information, we could further clarify the plasma lipid-stroke controversy and move into the 21st century with a better understanding of stroke prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10501408
Assess compliance with study medications and examine reasons for noncompliance. Individuals with peripheral arterial disease present the clinician with a unique combination of symptoms and therapeutic needs; the treatment of this population has not been adequately studied.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10501818
The main effect of statins is the decrease of serum level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, due to the inhibition of intracellular cholesterol biosynthesis which brings about an upregulation of LDL receptors. A minor effect is the decrease of serum triglycerides. The present study was undertaken to verify whether all statins are effective in reducing serum triglycerides and whether their effect on triglycerides is related to the LDL cholesterol lowering activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10501825
To study discrepancies in demographic characteristics between patients participating in pre-registration phase III trials of cardiovascular drugs, registered in the Netherlands, and patient populations in daily practice representing the actual users of the drugs after registration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10503169
To prospectively investigate the effect of cholesterol lowering diet, hormone replacement therapy and simvastatin on plasma lipid levels using a 3-month stepwise protocol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10503814
The incidence of cardiovascular disease in women is negligible before natural or surgically-induced menopause, and increases after menopause. Epidemiological data suggest that estrogen replacement therapy reduces the occurrence of coronary artery, and possibly cerebrovascular, disease by 25 to 50% in treated women compared with non-users. These findings are supported by the evidence that estrogens have a beneficial effect on cholesterol metabolism and deposition, contributing to the inhibition of atherosclerotic plaque formation in arterial walls. Early reports suggested that up to 60% of the protective effect of estrogens on coronary artery disease was attributable to favourable changes in plasma lipids. Reanalysis of the data indicated that the lipid changes probably account for approximately 25% of the cardioprotective effect of estrogens and that other effects are, therefore, likely to be important. The influence of estrogens on carbohydrate metabolism, atheroma formation and cardiovascular haemodynamics may also play an integral role in the overall beneficial effect of the hormones. Animal and human studies have shown that the administration of estrogens leads to a restoration of endothelial function, an increase in cardiac output, an increase in arterial flow velocity, a decrease in vascular resistance, and a decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Recent studies on hormone replacement regimens have shown that estrogens may favourably affect fibrinolysis and reduce plasma fibrinogen to premenopausal levels. Despite these effects of estrogens the recent Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study (HERS) failed to show a cardioprotective effect of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in elderly women with coronary artery disease. However, the HERS study has several limitations and stands alone against the large body of evidence that suggest that HRT may reduce cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10505300
The biopharmaceutical properties of cerivastatin were evaluated in a series of worldwide clinico-pharmacological studies. Young healthy males aged 18-45 years were randomized to receive 0.05-0.8 mg cerivastatin orally, given either as single or multiple once-daily doses under fed or fasting conditions in the morning, with evening meal or at bedtime. Following administration, cerivastatin was rapidly and almost completely absorbed into the gastrointestinal tract (> 98%), with maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) reached at 2-3 h post dose. The plasma concentration/time profile of the tablet is similar to an aqueous oral solution (relative bioavailability is 100%). The dose-proportionality of cerivastatin (0.05-0.8 mg) in area under the curve and Cmax showed low intra- and interindividual variability. The effect of food (single-dose studies testing administration of cerivastatin with a high-fat meal and clinical investigations in patients) or time of administration (single- and multiple-dose once-daily/twice-daily studies) had no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin. Marketed tablet strengths and drug formulations from different sources were found to be bioequivalent. Cerivastatin is a noncomplicated drug with respect to its biopharmaceutical profile and bioavailability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10505301
This study examined the action of cerivastatin, a new statin, in subjects with primary hypercholesterolaemia. The effects of two oral doses of cerivastatin (400 micrograms/day or 300 micrograms/day) were compared with placebo in 349 patients using a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study design. Cerivastatin treatment lasted 8 weeks and produced significant reductions in low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels from baseline compared with placebo. The reduction in LDL-C was significantly greater with 400 micrograms than with 300 micrograms cerivastatin. When responder rates were examined, the higher (400 micrograms/day) cerivastatin dose was found to be more effective in producing larger (> 40%) reductions in LDL-C levels. Cerivastatin treatment was well tolerated. Only two withdrawals due to adverse events during active treatment occurred, neither of which was considered to be due to the study medication. In addition, no clinically relevant increases in the levels of creatine phosphokinase and hepatic transaminases (alanine transaminase and aspartate transaminase) compared with placebo were seen in this study. In conclusion, cerivastatin treatment produced a significant lowering of LDL-C levels, with the higher dose providing the greatest benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10506395
In a prospective, randomized study of patients with acute manifestation of coronary heart disease and hypercholesterolemia (LDL cholesterol >/= 130 </= 250 mg/dl), we compared the effect of an early-initiated, intensified therapy to usual care antilipidemic therapy with respect to coronary lesions and clinical events. Patients were included immediately following acute myocardial infarction and/or PTCA because of severe/instable angina pectoris. The intensified therapy consisted of pravastatin 20-40 mg with addition of colestyramine and/or nicotinic acid, if necessary, to achieve an LDL cholesterol </= 130 mg/dl. In the control group, antilipidemic therapy was left up to the private physician. The group with intensified therapy consisted of 70 patients (LDL cholesterol 179 +/- 27 mg/dl, age 55 +/- 10 years, 81% males), the control group of 56 patients (LDL cholesterol 177 +/- 28 mg/dl, age 58 +/- 11 years, 79% males). Cholesterol was reduced longterm by 28% under intensified therapy, but it remained constant in the control group. Quantitative coronary angiography revealed a mean of increase minimal lumen diameter of 0.05 mm after 6 months with intensified therapy and of 0.13 mm after 24 months. Under conventional therapy, however, it decreased by 0.08 mm after 6 months, and by 0.18 mm after 24 months (p < 0.01). In addition, within 12 months of therapy, significantly (p < 0.01) less cardiovascular clinical events were observed in patients under intensified therapy. After 2 years 43% (n = 22) of the controls, but only 17% (n = 14) of the patients with intensified therapy experienced a major clinical event (p < 0.03), i. e. death, myocardial infarction, necessary coronary intervention, cerebral infarction or new peripheral vascular disease. This study is the first to show that aggressive early - initiated cholesterol-lowering therapy can induce regression and reduce progression of coronary lesions already after 6 months. These changes are accompanied by a significant reduction in clinical events. The results of our study underline the necessity of immediate cholesterol screening and early intensive antilipemic therapy at the latest when of coronary heart disease becomes manifest.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10507807
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10509851
The potential mutual interaction between cerivastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, and digoxin was assessed in this nonmasked, nonrandomized, multiple-dose study. The effect of cerivastatin 0.2 mg on mean plasma digoxin levels and the effect of digoxin on the single-dose pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin were assessed in 20 healthy normocholesterolemic men between 18 and 45 years of age weighing 140 to 200 lbs (63.3 to 90.0 kg). Subjects were given a single dose of cerivastatin 0.2 mg. After a 2-day washout period, subjects were given a loading dose of digoxin 0.5 mg for 3 days followed by 0.25 mg daily for 5 additional days (period 1-digoxin alone). Concurrent dosing with cerivastatin 0.2 mg continued for 14 days (period 2-digoxin and cerivastatin), followed by an 8-day course of digoxin-only administration and an optional 6-day extension of digoxin-only treatment for a total of 14 days (period 3). Safety was assessed through physical examination, electrocardiography, laboratory tests, and ophthalmologic examination. Ratio analyses of mean digoxin plasma trough levels, 24-hour urinary digoxin levels, and digoxin clearance with and without concurrent cerivastatin dosing also were carried out. In addition, single-dose pharmacokinetic variables for cerivastatin, including area under the curve (AUC(0-24)), peak concentration (C(max)), time to peak concentration (T(max)), and elimination half-life (t1/2), were examined with and without concurrent digoxin dosing. Eleven of the 20 subjects completed the entire study. Seven subjects discontinued the study because of treatment-emergent adverse events or laboratory abnormalities that were mostly unrelated to cerivastatin, and 2 subjects were discontinued because of protocol violations. Treatment-emergent adverse events developed in 12 subjects receiving cerivastatin; 11 of these subjects were receiving digoxin concurrently. Six adverse events that led to discontinuation of treatment were unrelated to cerivastatin but were related to digoxin or to a preexisting condition. The most commonly reported event was headache, which occurred with equal frequency compared with placebo groups in large cerivastatin clinical trials. Other events were mild or moderate and resolved without intervention. Mild and transient elevations in hepatic transaminase and creatine kinase values (all <2 times the upper limit of normal) were observed in 7 subjects. After 14 days of concurrent dosing of cerivastatin and digoxin, steady-state digoxin plasma levels, urinary digoxin levels, and urinary digoxin clearance were unchanged compared with steady-state digoxin levels when digoxin was given alone. Compared with dosing with digoxin alone, the AUC(0-24), Cmax, and t1/2 for cerivastatin increased 3%, 20%, and 7%, respectively, while the T(max) was reduced by 18% during concurrent treatment with digoxin. These changes are minimal and would not be expected to be clinically relevant. These results demonstrate that when cerivastatin is administered concurrently with digoxin, neither digoxin nor cerivastatin plasma levels are altered. The combination therapy was generally well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10510951
To evaluate the effects of simvastatin on serum lipids and insulin sensitivity in Type 2 diabetic patients with hypercholesterolaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10511025
To assess retrobulbar blood flow velocities and finger nailfold capillary blood flow velocities (two readily accessible vascular beds) in subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia before and during lipid-lowering therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10511919
Food-drug interactions can be associated with alterations in the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of various drugs that may have clinical implications. The various phases in which food may interact with a coadministered drug are: (i) before and during gastrointestinal absorption; (ii) during distribution; (iii) during metabolism; and (iv) during elimination. Absorption and metabolism are the phases where food has most effect, and this review will focus on those areas. It will also review the variable and complex effects of antacids and metal ions on drug absorption. Mechanisms related to food effects on drug absorption have been described under 5 categories: those causing decreased, delayed, increased or accelerated absorption, and those in which food has no significant effect. Among the major variables that interface between differential effects of food and postprandial bioavailability are: (i) the physicochemical characteristics and enantiomorphic composition of the drug; (ii) timing of meals in relation to time of drug administration; (iii) size and composition of meals (especially fat, protein and fibre); and (iv) dose size. However, the influence of food is largely a matter of the design of the pharmaceutical formulation. In addition, the mechanism of 'food effect' may involve physiological and sensory responses to food, such as changes in gastrointestinal milieu and gastric emptying rate, reflex action, and may also involve the site and route (either portal or lymphatic) of drug absorption. Mixing drugs with fruit juice, such as grapefruit and orange juice, and acidic beverages, such as commercial soft drinks, may affect absorption because of decreases in gastric pH, which could offer a therapeutic advantage in certain clinical conditions, such as patients with HIV disease and cancer. The increased bioavailability caused by the concomitant intake of grapefruit juice results from the inhibition of intestinal cytochrome P450(CYP)3A4, but not hepatic CYP3A4 or colon CYP3A5, which probably involves the bioflavonoid naringenin and furanocoumarins. Although there is a vast amount of literature, there is still no rational scientific basis to predict the effect of food for a particular chemical entity or a chemical class of therapeutic agents. A mechanistic understanding of the effects of food may serve as a key to the pharmacokinetic optimisation of patient therapy, both in outpatients and hospitalised patients of various age groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10512503
The cost-effectiveness of each of the six hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors currently available was studied. For a cohort of patients between the ages of 60 and 85 years with coronary heart disease (CHD) who were taking atorvastatin, cerivastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, or simvastatin, the number of survivors, the annual direct cost per survivor, and the annual indirect cost saving per survivor associated with the predicted reduction in the rate of nonfatal myocardial infarction recurrences were projected. Percent reductions in excess mortality due to CHD were derived from the relative risks of cardiac mortality in treatment versus control groups in the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S). Doses necessary to provide a long-term 35.57% reduction in low-density- lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, as seen in 4S, were estimated. One-way sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the importance of the baseline assumptions. The cost per year of life saved ranged from $5,421 with atorvastatin to $15,073 with lovastatin. The patient's age at time of diagnosis of CHD had a major impact on the cost-effectiveness of the drugs; cost-effectiveness per year of life saved was higher for older patients than younger patients. The six currently marketed HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors varied widely in cost and effectiveness in producing reductions in the LDL-cholesterol concentrations that have been shown to prevent recurrent MI; there was an approximately threefold difference in the cost per year of life saved between the most cost-effective and least cost-effective agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10513779
The long-term safety profile of simvastatin, established over 10 years of clinical use, is excellent. The principal adverse effect of all inhibitors of hydroxymethylglutarate co-enzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, myopathy, is infrequent. Simvastatin is a substrate for cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). CYP3A4 inhibitors can elevate the plasma concentration of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity derived from simvastatin. Clinical experience has shown that concomitant use of potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 increase the risk for myopathy. Evaluation of data from clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance allows assessment of whether concomitant use of weaker CYP3A4 inhibitors, as represented by calcium channel blockers, has any effect on the risk of myopathy. Cases of myopathy in long-term clinical megatrials and in analyses of postmarketing adverse event reports have been surveyed. In megatrials with simvastatin, the overall incidence of myopathy was 0.025%. The proportion of patients developing myopathy who were taking a calcium channel blocker with simvastatin (1 of 3) was similar to the proportion of patients taking a calcium channel blocker overall. Among marketed-use adverse event reports, concomitant medication with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor was more frequent among reports of myopathy than among reports of nonmusculoskeletal adverse events. No excess use of calcium channel blockers among myopathy reports was observed. We conclude that the overall risk of myopathy during treatment with simvastatin is very low. Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, especially cyclosporine, significantly increase the risk. There is no evidence that weaker CYP3A4 inhibitors such as calcium channel blockers increase the risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10515287
We have investigated the effects of a potent lipid-lowering therapy on the activity of platelets as measured ex vivo by the surface activation markers CD62 (PADGEM, P-selectin, GMP 140) and CD63 (GP53) in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. Treatment with the HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitor fluvastatin (40 mg) significantly reduced the serum low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration by 30% (p<0.01) and total cholesterol by 25% (p<0.01). The platelet membrane activation markers CD62 (PADGEM, P-selectin, GMP140) and 63 (GP53) significantly decreased by 22 and 13% (in terms of the relative fluorescence intensity) under the treatment with fluvastatin (p<0.05), respectively. The cholesterol-lowering effect is accompanied by a significant reduction of the platelet membrane activation markers CD62 and CD63 reflecting a reduced platelet activity that may contribute to the vasoprotective profile of fluvasatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10519734
Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) mediates neutral lipid transport in plasma, resulting in a net transfer of cholesteryl ester from high density lipoprotein to very low density lipoprotein. CETP gene expression is regulated by cholesterol, and plasma CETP level increases in patients with hyperlipidemia and with cholesterol feeding. Simvastatin, unlike cholestyramine, reduces hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity and may decrease a cellular pool of cholesterol, which is regulatory for CETP gene expression. The effects of simvastatin and cholestyramine on plasma lipids and CETP in 24 male and 19 female patients with primary hypercholesterolemia were compared. Following a four-week placebo period, patients were randomly assigned to receive either simvastatin or cholestyramine. Medication was increased in a stepwise fashion (from 10 to 40 mg for simvastatin and from 8 to 24 g for cholestyramine) as required at six-week intervals to maintain a low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level below 3.4 mmol/L. At the end of the 18-week study, the mean dose of simvastatin was 28.6 mg/day and of cholestyramine 19.3 g/day. Simvastatin was more effective than cholestyramine in lowering LDL-C (-36.8% versus -27. 2%; P=0.031) and triglycerides (-8.5% versus +12.5%; P=0.045). Plasma CETP level decreased by 14.8% following treatment with simvastatin (P=0.003) but did not change following cholestyramine treatment. This study demonstrates that, compared with cholestyramine, simvastatin results in more favourable improvements in the plasma lipoprotein profile and also lowers plasma levels of CETP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10525118
Isoprostanes are members of a complex family of lipids, isomers of the conventional enzymatically derived prostaglandins (PG), which are produced in vivo primarily, if not exclusively, by a free radical-catalyzed peroxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids. Most of the work has been focused upon a group of isomers of the enzyme-derived PGF(2alpha), called F(2)-isoprostanes (F(2)-iPs). Because of their mechanism of formation, chemical stability and the rapid development of sensitive methods for their measurement, they have the attraction as non-invasive indices of oxidant stress in vivo. Altered generation of F(2)-iPs has been reported in a variety of clinical settings putatively associated with oxidant stress. These include atherosclerosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, the measurement of specific F(2)-iPs may provide a sensitive biochemical basis for rational dose-selection of natural and synthetic inhibitor of lipid peroxidation. Although F(2)-iPs possess biological activities in vitro and in vivo, much remains to be learned about their role and as mediators of the cellular effects of lipid peroxidation and oxidant stress.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10525119
The insulin resistant state is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. This increased risk is likely to be due to associated lipid and coagulation abnormalities rather than just abnormalities in glucose metabolism or hyperinsulinaemia alone. Exaggerated postprandial lipaemia is a well-recognised associate of insulin resistance and postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia is particularly important in the development of coronary atheroma. It seems likely that insulin is one of the hormonal regulators of adipose tissue and skeletal muscle blood flow. The reduced blood flow and blunting of the postprandial rise of peripheral blood flow in insulin resistance may decrease chylomicron-triglyceride delivery to muscle in subjects with insulin resistance. This, in turn, will lead to increased production of atherogenic particles. We propose that impaired postprandial vasodilation, already recognised as a key feature of glucose intolerance, is also the cause of impaired lipid metabolism in insulin resistant subjects and predisposes them to cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10525120
Several studies indicate that the inter-individual variation in plasma concentrations of lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) is mainly under genetic control. To define the effect of three DNA polymorphisms on apolipoprotein(a) (apo(a)) expression, we have determined plasma Lp(a) concentrations, apo(a) isoform size, KpnI allele size, the TTTTA pentanucleotide repeat number in the 5' control region of the apo(a) gene and the +93 C/T polymorphism in a European Caucasian population. The simultaneous determination of the kringle 4 (K4) number by genotyping and by phenotyping revealed that the size distribution of non-expressed apo(a) alleles was markedly skewed towards alleles with greater than 25 K4 repeats. This is consistent with the inverse relationship frequently described between the kringle 4 number and the plasma Lp(a) level. Apportioning the Lp(a) concentration from the surface of the peaks on apo(a) phenotyping blots, we have observed that the Lp(a) plasma concentration associated with alleles having more than 25 K4 units does not exceed 400 mg/l, whereas the range of Lp(a) concentrations associated with smaller alleles was broad, from 0 to more than 1000 mg/l. It can thus be concluded that the number of K4 repeats is the main determinant of Lp(a) concentration when this number is more than 25, whereas other polymorphisms may be involved in the alleles with fewer than 26 K4. Analyses of the TTTTA repeat number and of the +93 C/T polymorphism were performed in subjects with KpnI alleles of the same length: low Lp(a) concentrations were shown to be preferentially associated with the presence of apo(a) alleles with more than eight pentanucleotide repeats while no association was revealed between Lp(a) plasma levels and the C/T polymorphism. These results demonstrate that the (TTTTA)(n) polymorphism affects the Lp(a) expression independently of apo(a) size polymorphism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10525131
The changes in low density lipoprotein (LDL) composition and oxidizability after LDL-apheresis (LA) using dextran sulfate cellulose columns were evaluated in 12 hypercholesterolemic men (mean+/-S.D. total cholesterol (TC) 9.7+/-1.8 mmol/l). After 10-20 months on biweekly LA combined with simvastatin 40 mg per day immediate pre-apheresis levels of TC, LDL-cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B were decreased to 5.3+/-1.3 mmol/l, 3.3+/-1.2 mmol/l, and 1.6+/-0.4 g/l, respectively, whereas apheresis induced mean acute reductions of 61, 78, and 76%, respectively. Measurements of copper-induced LDL-oxidizability in vitro showed an increased resistance against oxidation after LA until day 3 post-treatment: lag time (min) (day 0 (before LA) versus day 1 (post-LA)) 112+/-27 versus 130+/-26 (P=0.001), maximal rate of diene production (nmol/min per mg LDL) 11.1+/-2.7 versus 9.1+/-2.1 (P=0.001), and time to maximal diene production (min) 186+/-39 versus 209+/-35 (P=0. 001). Analysis of the chemical composition of LDL revealed a 25% (P<0.001) reduced content of cholesteryl esters and a decrease of the cholesterol to protein ratio of 1.20+/-0.25 to 0.70+/-0.22 (P<0. 001) through the 3rd day post-LA. Linoleic acid and arachidonic acid content of LDL decreased 11 and 18%, respectively, at the expense of palmitic acid. Vitamin E levels (mg/l) were significantly lowered due to reduction of the lipoprotein pool by apheresis; however, vitamin E content of LDL did not change in the days after apheresis when expressed per g protein or per micromol linoleic acid. The changes in fatty acid pattern were strongly associated with changes in LDL-oxidizability indices (P</=0.01). Thus, LA effectively decreased LDL pool size, inducing the presence of less buoyant lipoproteins, which were less susceptible to in vitro oxidation. This was not explained by changes in vitamin E levels, but by short-term changes in the fatty acids composition.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10529318
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10532516
The effects of fluvastatin therapy on parameters of coagulation and fibrinolysis were evaluated in patients with diabetic dyslipidemia in a randomized, placebo-controlled study. Fluvastatin therapy was associated with a small reduction in factor VII coagulant activity, von Willebrand factor, and in plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 and tissue plasminogen activator antigens, but the effects of fluvastatin on hemostatic factors were much less marked than its effects on plasma lipids.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10532684
Stimulatory effects of a novel isobenzofranone, MD-700, on low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity were investigated in vitro and in vivo. MD-700 at 0.03 microg/ml elevated the expression of LDL receptor in HepG2 cells within 4 h. Corresponding to this, uptake of fluorescent labeled-LDL (3,3'-dioctadecylindocarbocyanine-LDL) by the cells increased linearly in time- and dose-dependent manner by MD-700 for up to 12 h. In the experiment using HepG2 cells transiently transfected with promoter-luciferase gene constructs, MD-700 increased luciferase activity in a dose-dependent manner from 0.03 to 0.1 microg/ml. In contrast, luciferase activity was not stimulated by MD-700 in construct with a deleted sterol regulatory element (SRE)-1, suggesting importance of SRE-1 in stimulation of the LDL receptor gene promoter by MD-700. Binding experiments on liver membranes from MD-700-treated hamsters showed about a 60% increase in 125I-labeled LDL binding. A Scatchard plot revealed that MD-700 increased the maximal binding without affecting binding affinity. In contrast to findings with an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, pravastatin, MD-700 had no effect on the sterol synthesis in hamster liver homogenates. These results suggest that MD-700 stimulates the expression of LDL receptor, presumably in a manner independent of change in sterol metabolism, and thereby promotes LDL clearance. Hypocholesterolemic actions of MD-700 in hamsters were then examined. MD-700 lowered serum cholesterol levels in hamsters fed normal chow or a high-fat diet. Fractionation of serum lipoproteins demonstrated that MD-700 selectively decreased LDL and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol. Dose-dependent decrease in serum cholesterol was also seen in hypercholesterolemic rats. Thus, the hypocholesterolemic action of MD-700 may be attributed to up-regulation of the LDL receptor, based on stimulation of the transcription of the LDL receptor gene. Although pravastatin stimulates LDL uptake and lowers serum cholesterol in a manner similar to that seen with MD-700, the mechanism responsible for hypocholesterolemic action appears to differ.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10532693
The reported results (The Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Trial Investigators. The effect of aggressive lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and low-dose anticoagulation on obstructive changes in saphenous-vein coronary-artery bypass grafts. New Engl J Med 1997;336:153-162) of the Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (Post CABG) trial have shown that aggressive lowering was more effective than moderate lowering of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in reducing the progression of atherosclerosis in saphenous-vein grafts (27 vs. 39%; P < 0.001); low dose warfarin had no effect on the progression of atherosclerosis. The present report describes the effect of long-term (an average of 4.3 years) aggressive treatment with high (40-80 mg/day) and moderate treatment with low (2.5-5 mg/day) doses of lovastatin on lipids, apolipoproteins (apo) and apoA- and apoB-containing lipoprotein families. To achieve the target LDL-cholesterol levels (60-85 mg/dl for aggressive group and 134-140 mg/dl for moderate group), cholestyramine (8 g/day) was given to 25% of subjects on aggressive and 5% of subjects on moderate treatment. Although with both treatment strategies there were significant decreases (P<0.001) in the levels of total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, apoB, LDL-apoB and cholesterol-rich Lp-B family, percent changes in the levels of these variables were greater in the aggressive- than in the moderate-treatment groups. These treatments had only marginal effects in increasing the levels of high density lipoprotein cholesterol, apoA-I and Lp-A-I and Lp-A-I:A-II families. The long-term aggressive treatment exerted no effect on the concentrations of triglycerides, apoC-IlI, apoC-III in VLDL + LDL and triglyceride-rich Lp-Bc families. Neither treatment affected the levels of Lp(a). The potentially modifying influence of warfarin and apoE phenotypes on lovastatin-induced changes in lipoprotein variables was found to be of little significance. It is likely that the beneficial effect of lovastatin in reducing the progression of atherosclerosis in grafts is mediated through its specific lowering effect on cholesterol-rich Lp-B particles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10534139
It has become evident that cardiovascular disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in type 2 diabetes mellitus. This raises the possibility that glucose lowering agents with other nonglucose-lowering effects, might have added benefits. In this review, we focus on the metabolic and cardiovascular effects of oral antidiabetic agents that go beyond glucose-level lowering. Such effects include lipid modifying actions, antithrombotic and profibrinolytic activities, and direct action at the level of the vessel wall to improve endothelial function or prevent smooth muscle hyperplasia. These additional activities, particularly those seen with the newer oral antidiabetic agents, hold the promise of reducing cardiovascular complications beyond that achievable by glucose lowering alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10534222
To review the efficacy and safety of fenofibrate in the management of hyperlipidemias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10537435
Recent data indicate that the combination of a low cholesterol diet and simvastatin following heart transplantation is associated with significant reduction of serum cholesterol levels, lower incidence of graft vessel disease (GVD) and significantly superior 4-year survival rates than dietary treatment alone. On the basis of this first randomised long term study evaluating survival as the clinical end-point, we investigated the cost effectiveness of the above regimens as well as the long term consequences for the patient and for heart transplantation as a high-tech procedure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10541773
Mibefradil was approved as a novel calcium antagonist in Switzerland in 1996. Following its launch as an antihypertensive and anti-anginal agent, there were reports about serious pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions occurring with other drugs frequently administered to patients with cardiovascular diseases. Despite appropriate modifications of the prescribing information, such interactions continued to occur. The drug was finally withdrawn after a study in patients with congestive heart failure showed a trend to higher mortality with mibefradil. This increase in mortality could again be due to multiple interactions between mibefradil and other drugs. In retrospect, it can be concluded that several of the interactions, including the theoretical risk of severe toxicity in some patients, could have been and in fact were predicted on the basis of the data available before introduction to the market. Depending on the benefits, these problems would however not necessarily represent an unacceptable risk for a new active compound.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10545439
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10546006
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study showed that simvastatin treatment reduced cardiovascular events in hypercholesterolemic subjects with coronary heart disease. The clinical benefits of therapy were similar in all three subgroups: normal fasting glucose (NFG, n = 3,237), impaired fasting glucose (IFG, n = 678), and diabetes (n = 483). This analysis compared the costs of simvastatin treatment with the costs of cardiovascular disease-related hospitalizations in the three subgroups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10550412
The purpose of this study is to investigate the cost-effectiveness of simvastatin in diabetic patients, using prospectively collected outcomes data from the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10553644
We investigated the in vitro superoxide anion scavenging activities of fluvastatin and its metabolites. Fluvastatin showed dose-dependent superoxide anion scavenging activity in the NADH/phenazine methosulphate (PMS)/nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) system, and the effect was as potent as the reference antioxidant, trolox, which is a water-soluble alpha-tocopherol derivative. The superoxide anion scavenging activities of the major metabolites of fluvastatin (M2, M3, M4, M7) were also determined in this system. All of these metabolites showed the activity. In particular, M2 and M3, which possess a phenolic hydroxyl group at the 5 or 6-position of the indole moiety, respectively, showed 3 times stronger activities than that of fluvastatin. Further, we also determined the effects of fluvastatin, M2 and M3 on phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-induced superoxide anion generation in human peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN). The compounds tested also showed a depressing effect on the amount of superoxide anion in this system. We suggest that fluvastatin and its metabolites have the potential to protect cells or lipids from oxidative modification mediated by superoxide anion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10554675
Cardiovascular disease extracts a heavy burden on society. Until recently, the role of cholesterol lowering in coronary heart disease (CHD) patients has been debated, largely because there was no clear evidence that mortality could be reduced, particularly in patients with relatively normal cholesterol levels. Large-scale, placebo-controlled trials of pravastatin have now demonstrated however, a clear benefit and the safety of this HMG CoA reductase inhibitor. In typical patients with coronary heart disease and average cholesterol levels, pravastatin reduces cardiovascular events, coronary heart disease-related deaths and total mortality when compared to placebo (secondary prevention). Myocardial infarction and mortality from coronary heart disease is also reduced in patients with elevated cholesterol levels without preexisting coronary heart disease (primary prevention). The magnitude of this benefit depends on the particular cohort and absolute risk, which has implications for health strategy. Potential mechanisms of action of pravastatin in addition to lipid lowering are also discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10554705
A large amount of research continues to be conducted on the mechanisms of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) effects, and the first of the large clinical trials published its results during the past year. In addition to the well known effects on LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides, recent studies confirmed that estrogen with or without a progestin lowers lipoprotein (a) concentrations in women (but not in men). In men, estrogen appears to have a similar effect on other lipids and lipoproteins and on plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 as in women. A comparison of estrogen with simvastatin indicated that simvastatin is better at lowering LDL-cholesterol while estrogen is better at raising HDL-cholesterol; when given in combination the additional effects were modest. Estrogen and simvastatin had similar beneficial effects on endothelial function. The estrogen effect on endothelial function may be blocked by medroxyprogesterone, but the data are inconsistent. These studies of intermediate outcomes were put in perspective by the results of a landmark secondary prevention trial of coronary heart disease (CHD). This randomized placebo-controlled trial (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study) of conjugated equine estrogens plus medroxyprogesterone failed to show the anticipated reduction in CHD, and at the same time the threefold increase in venous thromboembolism confirmed that HRT is procoagulant. Therefore, it is still not known whether HRT is a viable option for the prevention of CHD. The preliminary data on selective estrogen receptor modulators are not overly promising, but a definitive trial to test whether raloxifene will reduce CHD is ongoing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10559508
Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase (statins) may enhance vascular endothelial function independent of their cholesterol lowering effect. To test this hypothesis, we surveyed two groups of patients (age 55+/-7, mean+/-SD) with coronary artery disease that were matched for age, blood pressure and serum lipid levels. Group 1 comprised 23 men without lipid-lowering medication and Group 2 included 22 patients with ongoing HMG CoA reductase inhibitor medication. Flow-mediated (endothelium-dependent) arterial dilatation (FMD) and nitrate-mediated (smooth muscle dependent) dilatation (NMD) were measured in the brachial artery using high resolution ultrasound. FMD was considerably higher in group 2 (4.3+/-2.6 vs. 2.6+/-2.8%; P<0.05). In multivariate regression model, statin use was the only significant (P<0.05) predictor of FMD. In all subjects, FMD correlated with statin dose (P<0.05 for trend). NMD was non-significantly higher in group 2 (11.4+/-5.0 vs. 9.0+/-4.2%, P=0. 08). We conclude that patients with established coronary artery disease on HMG CoA reductase inhibitor therapy have better vascular endothelial function than similar patients without the medication. These data provide further support for the idea that HMG CoA reductase inhibitors enhance endothelial function independent of their lipid-lowering effects. This may suggest that these drugs could be beneficial in secondary prevention of coronary artery disease regardless of the serum cholesterol concentration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10560473
Several chemical agents appear to be useful in primary prevention of CAD and cancer. Randomized trials have found that in specific patient subgroups, tamoxifen and raloxifene decreased the occurrence of breast cancer, and lovastatin and aspirin decreased the frequency of CAD events. Secondary analysis of randomized primary-prevention studies has supported the use of vitamin E and selenium in cancer prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10563066
An international multicentre double-blind randomised trial compared the efficacy and safety of cerivastatin (0.025, 0.05, 0.1 and 0.2 mg once daily) with placebo and simvastatin (20 mg) over a period of 12 weeks, with study extensions to 52 and 100 weeks. The primary efficacy parameter was the percentage change in low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). This was reduced from the baseline by 12.5% (0.025 mg) to 30.6% (0.2 mg) compared with falls of 2.0% on placebo and 40.3% on simvastatin. All four cerivastatin doses and simvastatin (20 mg) produced significantly greater falls than placebo (p < 0.0001) and the decrease in LDL-C was dose-dependent for cerivastatin. Simvastatin produced significantly greater falls than any cerivastatin dose or placebo (p < 0.0001). The effect was maintained at 1 year but somewhat attenuated at 100 weeks. Significant falls were also seen in serum total cholesterol and triglycerides. High density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels were significantly increased by cerivastatin (0.1 and 0.2 mg) and simvastatin (20 mg) at 12 weeks and increased further by 100 weeks. Mean fasting apolipoprotein A1 and lipoprotein A1 were increased and apolipoprotein B decreased by cerivastatin and simvastatin therapy. All doses of cerivastatin produced significant falls in the total cholesterol/HDL-C ratio at 12 weeks (0.5-1.6) compared with a fall of 2.1 for simvastatin (20 mg). Cerivastatin was well tolerated. Elevations in creatine phosphokinase, aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase were mostly minor and transitory. Vital signs, electrocardiogram determinations, urinalysis and ophthalmic assessment showed similar results for both drugs. Cerivastatin, at doses of 0.1 mg and 0.2 mg daily, is considered to be of therapeutic value in the treatment of patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia, with 0.2 mg cerivastatin achieving reductions of LDL-C and total cholesterol similar to those achieved in the WOSCOP and CARE studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10566571
The efficacy, safety, and impact on quality of life of once-daily treatment with simvastatin 20 mg and pravastatin 40 mg were compared in a multinational, randomized, double-masked trial involving 387 men 21 to 72 years of age with primary mild-to-moderate hypercholesterolemia. The trial consisted of a 12-week baseline period, which included 6 weeks of single-masked placebo administration, and a 12-week double-masked active treatment period. Throughout the trial, patients were maintained on a standard lipid-lowering diet. Efficacy variables were plasma lipid levels and a measurement of health-related quality of life evaluated by means of a self-administered questionnaire (the Nottingham Health Profile [NHP]) and other questionnaires related to general health, sexual function, and stress/life events. Clinic visits were scheduled at study entry (week -12), at initiation and week 5 of placebo (weeks -6 and -1, respectively); at randomization (week 1, day 1); and after 4, 8, and 12 weeks of active treatment. At each visit, blood samples were collected for determination of lipid levels and the NHP, the principal measure of health-related quality of life, was administered. Primary safety measures were adverse events and laboratory test results. All statistical comparisons were two-sided, and significance was defined as P< or =0.05 except for the NHP questionnaire, which was P< or =0.01. Treatment with simvastatin 20 mg/d for 12 weeks (n = 194) resulted in significantly greater reductions in plasma total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (25.7% and 33.6%, respectively) compared with pravastatin 40 mg/d for 12 weeks (n = 193) (19.0% and 26.3%, respectively) (P<0.001). No detrimental effects on health-related quality-of-life measurements were reported with either drug. A small but statistically significant improvement in emotional reaction from baseline (P<0.001) was observed after 12 weeks of treatment with simvastatin. At least 75% of simvastatin-treated patients indicated no change in response from baseline on NHP domain scores; these findings were similar to those for pravastatin-treated patients. The differences in the changes in lipid profiles between the 2 treatment groups were not associated with any observed differences in tolerability or health-related quality-of-life measures.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10566573
Health care payers have become increasingly interested in economic analyses to guide the allocation of limited health care resources. The Surrogate Marker Cost-Efficacy (SMaC) study was undertaken to assess the economics of treatment with simvastatin versus treatment with atorvastatin in reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in patients in 10 European countries, based on the results of a 1-year, double-blind, parallel-group clinical trial. Participants were between 18 and 80 years of age (n = 177; median age, 57; 94 men and 83 women). Entry criteria were a baseline LDL-C value between 4.2 and 7.8 mmol/L (160 to 300 mg/dL) and a triglyceride value < or =4.5 mmol/L (400 mg/dL). Patients were randomly assigned to receive simvastatin 10 mg or atorvastatin 10 mg. At 16 weeks, any patients not reaching their appropriate LDL-C level received simvastatin 20 mg/d or atorvastatin 20 mg/d. Patients were then followed up for a total of 52 weeks. The overall euro cost analysis was based on the weighted average price of each product across all the independent pharmaceutical markets based on official euro conversion rates. Individual country analyses also were conducted in each local currency. Over the 52-week study, there were no significant differences in the percentage of patients achieving an appropriate LDL-C level (simvastatin 48%, atorvastatin 50%). In the overall euro cost analysis, the cumulative cost of atorvastatin (134 euros) was 33% more than for simvastatin (101 euros) during the first 16 weeks. After titration to 20 mg, the total cost of treatment during the 52-week study remained significantly lower in the simvastatin group than in the atorvastatin group (429 vs 538 euros; P<0.0001). In individual country analyses, therapy with simvastatin was significantly less expensive than therapy with atorvastatin in 8 of 10 countries (P = 0.001 to 0.003). In the remaining 2 countries, there was no significant difference in cost. Across the countries included in the evaluation, there was a significant reduction in the cost of getting patients to appropriate LDL-C levels with simvastatin compared with atorvastatin. These results should provide useful information for physicians and payers; however, additional long-term clinical trials are required to assess fully how treatment with atorvastatin affects patient outcomes, safety, and costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10569303
The pathophysiology of the association between cholesterol and atherosclerosis has been thought to involve the deposition, modification, and cellular uptake of cholesterol. We now believe that the process begins with vascular injury and involves inflammation and vessel remodeling. The vascular endothelium actively regulates vascular tone, lipid breakdown, thrombogenesis, inflammation, and vessel growth, all of which are important factors in the development of atherosclerosis. Endothelial dysfunction promotes atherosclerosis through vasoconstriction, monocyte and platelet adhesion, thrombogenesis, and cytokine and growth factor stimulation and release. An important component of endothelial dysfunction is reduced availability of nitric oxide, which is caused by low-density lipoproteins, especially if they are oxidized. This reduced availability appears to occur through a combination of decreased production, abnormal signaling, and increased destruction by oxygen-free radicals. Concurrently, endothelium-mediated vasoconstrictors, adhesion molecules, cytokines, growth factors, and thrombogenic factors, such as endothelin, are increased by oxidized low-density lipoprotein. Several studies have shown improvements in endothelial function with cholesterol lowering, which may explain the early and substantial reductions in major cardiovascular events associated with cholesterol lowering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10569329
The PROspective Study of Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk (PROSPER) is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial designed to test the hypothesis that treatment with pravastatin will diminish risk of subsequent major vascular events in a cohort of men and women (70 to 82 years old) with preexisting vascular disease or significant risk of developing this condition. Five thousand eight hundred four men and women in addition to receiving advice on diet and smoking, have been randomized equally to treatment with 40 mg pravastatin/day or matching placebo in 3 centers (Cork, Ireland, Glasgow, Scotland, and Leiden, The Netherlands). Following an average 3.5-year intervention period, a primary assessment will be made of the influence of this therapy on major vascular events (a combination of coronary heart disease, death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and fatal and nonfatal stroke). A number of additional analyses will also be conducted on the individual components of the primary end point, on men, on women, and on subjects with and without previous evidence of vascular disease. Finally, an assessment will be made of the effects of treatment on cognitive function, disability, hospitalization or institutionalization, vascular mortality, and all-cause mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10569335
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10573325
To describe the development of coronary artery disease in childhood and review the available literature regarding the safety and efficacy of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) when used during childhood and adolescence.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10573494
To assess the impact of cholesterol lowering on positive exercise stress tests in hypercholesterolaemic patients with normal coronary angiograms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10580441
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10584091
Drug interactions commonly occur in patients receiving treatment with multiple medications. Most interactions remain unrecognized because drugs, in general, have a wide margin of safety or because the extent of change in drug levels is small when compared with the variation normally seen in clinical therapy. All drug interactions have a pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic basis and are predictable given an understanding of the pharmacology of the drugs involved. Drugs most liable to pose problems are those having concentration-dependent toxicity within, or close to, the therapeutic range; those with steep dose-response curves; those having high first-pass metabolism or those with a single, inhibitable route of elimination. Knowing which drugs possess these intrinsic characteristics, together with a knowledge of hepatic P-450 metabolism and common enzyme-inducing and enzyme-inhibiting drugs, can greatly assist physicians in predicting interactions that may be clinically relevant. This article reviews the pharmacology of drug interactions that can occur with hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) to illustrate the scope of the problem and the ways in which physicians may manage this important therapeutic class of drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10584766
Previous studies have suggested that clozapine is associated with increases in both weight and serum triglyceride (but not cholesterol) levels. Because of the pharmacologic similarities between clozapine and olanzapine, we decided to evaluate if olanzapine use was associated with an increase in triglycerides.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10591387
In the more than 50 years since the founding of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and the American Heart Association, medical science has moved from an era in which hypercholesterolemia, as it is now defined, was not believed to be abnormal to one in which controlling hypercholesterolemia is known to reduce not only coronary artery disease morbidity and mortality but also total mortality. While the efforts and successes of many researchers involved in this evolution are impressive, atherosclerosis is still a major cause of death and disability in many developed nations, mostly in the form of myocardial infarction and stroke, and is an increasing cause of morbidity and mortality in developing nations. Many questions about the detailed pathogenesis of the disease remain. Elucidating the roles of high-density lipoprotein, other lipoproteins, and homocysteine, as well as the roles of cytokines and growth factors, will permit better understanding and treatment of atherosclerosis. With continuing support for research and encouragement of physicians and patients to follow recommended preventive regimens, further progress can be made against this major cause of death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10591388
The Second Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel II) was issued without the benefit of multiple recently published large clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10592547
To compare patients with hypercholesterolaemia (HC) for factors relating to the decision to treat a patient with medication or not; and to assess the suitability of a previously established protocol of HC diagnosis and treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10593310
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10593311
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10597756
Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) have a marked increase in coronary heart disease (CHD) events relative to those without DM. In a previous report from the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study using a clinical case definition of DM (n = 202), simvastatin-treated patients had significantly fewer CHD events compared with placebo-treated control subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10601131
Certain hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, ie, statins, may cause vasodilation by restoring the endothelial dysfunction that frequently accompanies hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. Several studies have found that a blood pressure reduction is associated with the use of statins, but conclusive evidence from controlled trials is lacking. After an 8-week placebo and diet run-in period, 30 persons with moderate hypercholesterolemia and untreated hypertension (total cholesterol 6.29+/-0.52 mmol/L, systolic and diastolic blood pressure 149+/-6 and 97+/-2 mm Hg) were randomized in a double-blind manner to placebo or pravastatin (20 to 40 mg/d) in a crossover design. In 25 participants who completed the 32-week trial, pravastatin decreased total and LDL cholesterol (both -1.09 mmol/L, P=0.001), systolic and diastolic blood pressure (-8 and -5 mm Hg, both P=0.001), and pulse pressure (-3 mm Hg, P=0.011) and blunted the blood pressure increase caused by the cold pressor test (-4 mm Hg, P=0.005) compared with placebo. It also reduced the level of circulating endothelin-1 (P=0.001). The blood pressure results were virtually unchanged in stratified analyses according to gender and age and in intention-to-treat analyses that included the 5 patients who dropped out of the study. When the participants were taking either placebo or pravastatin, blood pressure was not significantly correlated with total or LDL cholesterol or with circulating endothelin-1. Pravastatin decreases systolic, diastolic, and pulse pressures in persons with moderate hypercholesterolemia and hypertension. This antihypertensive effect may contribute to the documented health benefits of certain statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10608479
There is broad agreement that statin treatment should be targeted at absolute coronary heart disease (CHD) risk but no consensus on the level of risk to target. We have examined the implications of adopting three different treatment policies for the management of hypertensive patients in the UK using data from treated hypertensives aged 35-69 years included in the Health Survey for England (1993).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10610245
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10610464
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10610568
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10612296
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10612322
Lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is known to reduce risk of recurrent coronary heart disease in middle-aged men. However, this effect has been uncertain in elderly people and women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10613627
Elevated blood cholesterol is a major risk factor for atherosclerosis. Recent studies show that lowering cholesterol reduces the risk of vascular disease, but the precise mechanisms for vascular improvement are not fully understood. Furthermore, it is not known whether the beneficial effects of cholesterol lowering extend to the skin microvasculature. In this unrandomized, open design study, we used iontophoresis and laser Doppler flowmetry to examine forearm skin perfusion in hypercholesterolaemic patients with PAOD before and after cholesterol-lowering therapy with fluvastatin. Endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilatation were measured following skin iontophoresis of acetylcholine (ACh) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP), respectively. Before cholesterol-lowering, vascular responses to ACh and SNP were reduced significantly in patients compared with responses in control subjects (p < 0.001 and p < 0.05, ANOVA, respectively). Fluvastatin therapy (40 mg/day) for 24 weeks significantly reduced total cholesterol (7.3+/-0.3 to 6.0+/-0.2 mmol/l, p < 0.001) and LDL cholesterol (5.4+/-0.5 to 4.2+/-0.4 mmol/l, p < 0.01). Vasodilatation to SNP was significantly improved at week 24 (p < 0.05). In patients with hypercholesterolaemia and PAOD, cholesterol-lowering with statin therapy significantly improved endothelium-independent vascular responses to SNP in skin microvessels. The application of the non-invasive techniques of iontophoresis and laser Doppler flowmetry may provide useful markers for the assessment of microvascular function in this group of patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10613632
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the USA and in the developed world. The beneficial role of cholesterol reduction in decreasing stroke has been uncertain. However, recent data indicate that statin treatment in patients with a history of myocardial infarction not only reduces the risk of a second myocardial infarction, coronary heart disease, revascularization procedures and death, but also significantly reduces the risk of stroke. However, the mechanism(s) by which statins reduce stroke remain uncertain. Thus, the therapeutic armamentarium for the reduction of stroke in secondary prevention now includes cholesterol reduction with statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10614803
Over a 4-year period, antioxidant therapy (vitamin E) was compared with high-dose statin therapy in 15 patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Carotid intima-media thickness, used as an in vivo assessment of atherosclerosis, progressed rapidly during the period of vitamin E therapy but regressed on statin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10617243
With current techniques, renal failure patients are now able to regain near-normal health following renal transplantation. However, the development of premature cardiovascular disease is a major problem. Dyslipidaemia may be an important contributor to this. The use of lipid lowering agents in renal allograft recipients has been limited by potential interaction of these agents with the now widely used immunosuppressive agent, cyclosporine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10618558
Tranilast is a unique drug in clinical development for the prevention of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary revascularization (PTCR). Tranilast interferes with proliferation and migration of vascular medial smooth muscle cells induced by platelet-derived growth factor and transforming growth factor beta1. Collagen synthesis in vascular medial smooth muscle cells is inhibited by tranilast, which also inhibits the release or production of cyclooxygenase-2 and restores cytokine-induced nitric oxide production. These mechanisms may contribute to the reduction of angiographic restenosis after coronary intervention previously reported in clinical studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10620739
To describe risk factors associated with the development of transplantation coronary artery disease (TCAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10622068
Adherence to evidence-based guidelines for the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) has been shown to be poor in a number of surveys. In this open-label, non-comparative 17-week trial, 399 patients with existing CHD and LDL cholesterol concentration > 3.4 mmol/l (130 mg/dl) were treated with atorvastatin 10 mg daily. After 5 weeks, the dose of atorvastatin was adjusted according to a patient's LDL cholesterol level. Of the 379 patients remaining in the study after five weeks of treatment, dose titration was not required for 355 patients (94%) who had reached the target LDL cholesterol of < or = 3.4 mmol/l. Of the 23 patients titrated to higher doses, 11 achieved the target LDL cholesterol after treatment for 17 weeks. Atorvastatin was well tolerated during the course of the study. Achieving LDL cholesterol targets without the need for dose titration simplifies clinical management and should encourage better adherence to evidence-based recommendations for secondary prevention of CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10624080
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10626120
Improved therapy for CTCL will depend on a better understanding of the pathogenesis of this disease at a molecular level. It is clear that the T cells in MF and CTCL do not undergo normal programmed cell death and have prolonged lifespans. Skin flora or other antigens may stimulate the initial proliferation, offering another approach to change the course of the disease. There has been tremendous interest in biological response modifiers, and the first targeted fusion toxin to activated T cells has been approved for CTCL. New retinoids with increased selectivity and decreased side effects are being tested for this disease. In summary, the treatment of CTCL should continue to improve and should be focused on strategies that preserve the immune function in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10627270
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10627271
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10627888
We compared atorvastatin with simvastatin-based therapies in a prospective observational study of 201 patients with severe hyperlipidaemia. Atorvastatin 10 mg therapy was substituted for simvastatin 20 mg, 20 mg for 40 mg, 40 mg for simvastatin 40 mg plus resin, and 80 mg for simvastatin-fibrate-resin therapy. Lipid and safety profiles were assessed. Atorvastatin reduced total cholesterol by 31 +/- 11-40 +/- 14% vs. 25 +/- 12-31 +/- 11%; LDL by 38 +/- 16-45 +/- 18% vs. 31 +/- 18-39 +/- 18% and geometric mean triglycerides by 29.3-37.3% vs. 16.6-24.8%, but reduced HDL 11% +/- 47% at 80 mg compared with a 16% +/- 34% increase with simvastatin-based therapy. Target LDL < 3.5 mmol/l was achieved more often with atorvastatin (63% vs. 50%; p < 0.001). Atorvastatin increased geometric mean fibrinogen by 12-20% vs. a 0-6% fall with simvastatin (p < 0.001). Side effects were noted in 10-36% of patients, including one case of rhabdomyolysis, and 36% discontinued therapy. These data suggest that atorvastatin is more effective than current simvastatin-based therapies in achieving treatment targets in patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia but at the expense of a possible increase in side-effects. This issue needs further study in randomized controlled trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10629395
In clinical trials, statins (vastatins) reduce cardiovascular disease with cholesterol reduction, but this relationship is unclear. We reasoned that (1) thrombin (IIa) is an underlying mediator of cardiovascular events, (2) IIa mediates cellular events through its primary receptor [protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1)], and (3) statins inhibit an isoprenoid-dependent event between PAR-1 activation and tissue factor upregulation leading to IIa generation. In the isoprenoid pathways, statins inhibit mevalonic acid synthesis prior to divergence of the cholesterol and other pathway branches, where the latter produce cell-regulating substances (e.g., ras proteins). Through PAR-1 in platelets and other cells, IIa stimulates G-protein-coupled mechanisms including ras proteins. We hypothesize that statins exhibit antithrombotic properties at the cellular level downregulatating IIa generation and that statins may constitute a novel class of antithrombotics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10631627
The effect of atovarstatin on digoxin pharmacokinetics was assessed in 24 healthy volunteers in two studies. Subjects received 0.25 mg digoxin daily for 20 days, administered alone for the first 10 days and concomitantly with 10 mg or 80 mg atorvastatin for the last 10 days. Mean steady-state plasma digoxin concentrations were unchanged by administration of 10 mg atorvastatin. Mean steady-state plasma digoxin concentrations following administration of digoxin with 80 mg atorvastatin were slightly higher than concentrations following administration of digoxin alone, resulting in 20% and 15% higher Cmax and AUC(0-24) values, respectively. Since tmax and renal clearance were not significantly affected, the results are consistent with an increase in the extent of digoxin absorption in the presence of atorvastatin. Digoxin is known to undergo intestinal secretion mediated by P-glycoprotein. Since atorvastatin is a CYP3A4 substrate and many CYP3A4 substrates are also substrates for P-glycoprotein transport, the influence of atorvastatin and its metabolites on P-glycoprotein-mediated digoxin transport in monolayers of the human colon carcinoma (Caco-2) cell line was investigated. In this model system, atorvastatin exhibited efflux or secretion kinetics with a K(m) of 110 microM. Atorvastatin (100 microM) inhibited digoxin secretion (transport from the basolateral to apical aspect of the monolayer) by 58%, equivalent to the extent of inhibition observed with verapamil, a known inhibitor of P-glycoprotein transport. Thus, the increase in steady-state digoxin concentrations produced by 80 mg atorvastatin coadministration may result from inhibition of digoxin secretion into the intestinal lumen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10632286
Guidelines from the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) recommend reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) to 100 mg/dL (2.59 mmol/L) or less in patients with established coronary heart disease (CHD). However, the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) is implementing a new performance measure as part of the Health Plan Employer and Data Information Set (HEDIS) that appears to endorse a different target. The new HEDIS measure will require managed care organizations seeking NCQA accreditation to measure and report the percentage of patients who have had major CHD events who achieve LDL-C levels less than 130 mg/dL (3.36 mmol/L) between 60 and 365 days after discharge. These different LDL-C thresholds emphasize the difference between a clinical goal for the management of individual patients (< or =100 mg/dL) and a performance measure used to evaluate the care of a population of patients (<130 mg/dL). This article discusses the rationale for each threshold and explains the use of 2 different thresholds for these 2 purposes. Both the NCQA and NCEP expect that the new HEDIS measure will encourage managed care organizations to develop systems that improve secondary prevention of CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10632823
To determine if 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) are effective in preventing fatal and nonfatal strokes in patients at increased risk of coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10632825
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10636252
Significant advances in the management of cardiovascular disease have been made possible by the development of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors--"statins." Initial studies explored the impact of statin therapy on coronary artery disease (CAD) progression and regression. Although the angiographic changes were small, associated clinical responses appeared significant. Subsequent large prospective placebo-controlled clinical trials with statins demonstrated benefit in the secondary and primary prevention of CAD in subjects with elevated cholesterol levels. More recently, the efficacy of statins has been extended to the primary prevention of CAD in subjects with average cholesterol levels. Recent studies also suggest that statins have benefits beyond the coronary vascular bed and are capable of reducing ischemic stroke risk by approximately one-third in patients with evidence of vascular disease. In addition to lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, statin therapy appears to exhibit pleiotropic effects on many components of atherosclerosis including plaque thrombogenicity, cellular migration, endothelial function and thrombotic tendency. Growing clinical and experimental evidence indicates that the beneficial actions of statins occur rapidly and yield potentially clinically important anti-ischemic effects as early as one month after commencement of therapy. Future investigations are warranted to determine threshold LDL values in primary prevention studies, and to elucidate effects of statins other than LDL lowering. Finally, given the rapid and protean effects of statins on determinants of platelet reactivity, coagulation, and endothelial function, further research may establish a role for statin therapy in acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10636263
We sought to evaluate whether pravastatin treatment increases myocardial perfusion, as assessed by thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) dipyridamole testing, in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and average cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10636265
Our objectives were to determine whether angiotensin-1 converting enzyme (ACE) insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism was associated with the severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) and its progression/regression in response to fluvastatin therapy in the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS) population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10637210
Statins (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors) are used widely for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. They inhibit HMG-CoA reductase competitively, reduce LDL levels more than other cholesterol-lowering drugs, and lower triglyceride levels in hypertriglyceridemic patients. Statins are well tolerated and have an excellent safety record. Clinical trials in patients with and without coronary heart disease and with and without high cholesterol have demonstrated consistently that statins reduce the relative risk of major coronary events by approximately 30% and produce a greater absolute benefit in patients with higher baseline risk. Proposed mechanisms include favorable effects on plasma lipoproteins, endothelial function, plaque architecture and stability, thrombosis, and inflammation. Mechanisms independent of LDL lowering may play an important role in the clinical benefits conferred by these drugs and may ultimately broaden their indication from lipid-lowering to antiatherogenic agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10639300
To evaluate the effects of simvastatin only or combined with continuous hormone replacement therapy on the serum lipid profile in hypercholesterolaemic post-menopausal women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10639539
Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors improve the outcome among patients with left ventricular dysfunction, whether or not they have heart failure. We assessed the role of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, ramipril, in patients who were at high risk for cardiovascular events but who did not have left ventricular dysfunction or heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10644862
In the current study pravastatin was used in nephrotic syndrome patients with hypercholesterolemia and combined hyperlipidemia to test whether the drug decreases production of LDL and reduces levels of VLDL and IDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10644914
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10645752
The Saitama Postmenopausal Lipid Intervention Study was a multicenter, uncontrolled, collaborative study that investigated tolerability and sex-related differences in the response of serum lipids to simvastatin administered for 12 months in 122 postmenopausal women and 55 men with serum total cholesterol (TC) levels > or =220 mg/dL. With simvastatin treatment, TC and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels decreased significantly at 1 month in both groups, and these decreased levels were maintained throughout treatment (P < 0.001). A significant decrease in triglyceride (TG) levels was also observed in both groups (P < 0.05). The mean percentage decreases in TC and LDL-C levels in women (20% and 28%, respectively) were significantly greater than those in men (15% and 20%, respectively) (P < 0.001). Mean percentage changes in TC and LDL-C levels in subgroups defined by stratification for baseline TC and LDL-C levels were also greater in women. There were no sex-related differences in the percentage changes in TG or high-density cholesterol levels, although the changes were influenced by baseline levels. Although the median dose of simvastatin (milligrams per kilogram of body weight) in women was significantly higher than in men (P < 0.001), the percentage changes in serum lipids were not correlated with the doses of simvastatin calibrated by body weight. Adverse reactions occurred in 8 men and 7 women, so there appeared to be no significant sex-related difference. Eleven patients had abnormal laboratory values. Simvastatin therapy for 12 months is well tolerated and effective for both women and men with hypercholesterolemia. Sex-related differences occurred in the response to simvastatin therapy of serum lipids, especially TC and LDL-C, with greater changes in lipid levels occurring in women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10656300
A review is presented of studies on the effects of vitamin E on heart disease, studies encompassing basic science, animal studies, epidemiological and observational studies, and four intervention trials. The in vitro, cellular, and animal studies, which are impressive both in quantity and quality, leave no doubt that vitamin E, the most important fat-soluble antioxidant, protects animals against a variety of types of oxidative stress. The hypothesis that links vitamin E to the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) postulates that the oxidation of unsaturated lipids in the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle initiates a complex sequence of events that leads to the development of atherosclerotic plaque. This hypothesis is supported by numerous studies in vitro, in animals, and in humans. There is some evidence that the ex vivo oxidizability of a subject's LDL is predictive of future heart events. This background in basic science and observational studies, coupled with the safety of vitamin E, led to the initiation of clinical intervention trials. The three trials that have been reported in detail are, on balance, supportive of the proposal that supplemental vitamin E can reduce the risk for heart disease, and the fourth trial, which has just been reported, showed small, but not statistically significant, benefits. Subgroup analyses of cohorts from the older three trials, as well as evidence from smaller trials, indicate that vitamin E provides protection against a number of medical conditions, including some that are indicative of atherosclerosis (such as intermittent claudication). Vitamin E supplementation also produces an improvement in the immune system and protection against diseases other than cardiovascular disease (such as prostate cancer). Vitamin E at the supplemental levels being used in the current trials, 100 to 800 IU/d, is safe, and there is little likelihood that increased risk will be found for those taking supplements. About one half of American cardiologists take supplemental vitamin E, about the same number as take aspirin. In fact, one study suggests that aspirin plus vitamin E is more effective than aspirin alone. There are a substantial number of trials involving vitamin E that are in progress. However, it is possible, or even likely, that each condition for which vitamin E provides benefit will have a unique dose-effect curve. Furthermore, different antioxidants appear to act synergistically, so supplementation with vitamin E might be more effective if combined with other micronutrients. It will be extremely difficult to do trials that adequately probe the dose-effect curve for vitamin E for each condition that it might affect, or to do studies of all the possible combinations of other micronutrients that might act with vitamin E to improve its effectiveness. Therefore, the scientific community must recognize that there never will be a time when the science is "complete." At some point, the weight of the scientific evidence must be judged adequate; although some may regard it as early to that judgement now, clearly we are very close. In view of the very low risk of reasonable supplementation with vitamin E, and the difficulty in obtaining more than about 30 IU/day from a balanced diet, some supplementation appears prudent now.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10657561
Basic research and our previous studies have suggested that mercury exposure enhances lipid peroxidation and the risk of myocardial infarction, but there are no studies concerning the association between mercury accumulation and atherosclerosis. We therefore investigated whether high hair mercury content is associated with accelerated progression of carotid atherosclerosis, determined by ultrasonographic assessment of common carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), in a prospective study among 1014 men aged 42-60 years. In a linear regression model adjusting for other atherosclerotic risk factors, high hair mercury content was one of the strongest predictors of the 4-year increase in the mean IMT (P2.81 microg/g (fifths) had an IMT increase of 0.105, 0.102, 0.113, 0.107 and 0.140 mm/4 years, respectively (P=0.041 for heterogeneity between groups). The IMT increase was 0.034 mm/4 years (31.9%) greater in the highest fifth than in the other fifths (P<0.05 for the difference). These findings suggest that mercury accumulation in the human body is associated with accelerated progression of carotid atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10657578
Low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor deficient mice, thus hypercholesterolemic, combine protection against infection with an ex vivo two- to threefold higher pro-inflammatory cytokine production in macrophages. A pro-inflammatory cytokine profile ex-vivo is also associated with survival of gram-negative sepsis in man. We hypothesized that high lipoprotein levels would be associated with a pro-inflammatory cytokine production and could explain the resistance to fatal infection. We treated 10 patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, and 13 patients with endogenous hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) with fibrates. Blood samples were stimulated ex vivo with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), to assess the cytokine production capacity. FH patients had significantly lower tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production, compared to normolipidemic controls (P=0. 001). Lipid lowering treatment in FH patients did not affect TNF-alpha production. HTG patients showed significantly higher TNF-alpha production at baseline than matched normolipidemic controls (P<0.001), while lowering of serum triglycerides in these patients resulted in a significant decrease in TNF-alpha production (P=0.019). The IL-10 production was not affected. These data refute our hypothesis that high LDL-cholesterol levels are associated with a pro-inflammatory cytokine production capacity. In contrast, the study suggests that very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) in hypertriglyceridemic patients augments TNF-alpha production.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10662743
The Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study (AFCAPS/TexCAPS) is the first primary-prevention study in a cohort with average total cholesterol (TC) and LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) and below-average HDL cholesterol (HDL-C). Treatment with lovastatin (20 to 40 mg/d) resulted in a 25% reduction in LDL-C and a 6% increase in HDL-C, as well as a 37% reduction in risk for first acute major coronary event (AMCE), defined as fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or sudden cardiac death. This article describes the relation between baseline and on-treatment lipid and apolipoprotein (apo) parameters and subsequent risk for AMCEs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10664901
Understanding cardiac drug interactions with concurrent psychotropic prescriptions is essential for the practicing cardiologist and primary care physician, as well as for the psychiatrist. There has been an explosive use of new drugs in both psychiatry and cardiology without widespread knowledge of their potential interactions. The increasing tendency toward poly-pharmacy, the use of psychotropic medications by cardiologists and primary care physicians caring for cardiac patients, and the growth of the aging population present major challenges for the practitioner. Finally, there is a need to have models/paradigms for predicting potential drug interactions--e.g., the Cytochrome p450 schema. This paper describes a method to identify, understand, and codify the interactions between psychotropic and cardiac drugs, a systematic approach for updating this key database and specific cardiac-psychotropic drug interactions. Specifically, this paper 1) details the interactions, 2) addresses the level of their clinical significance, 3) describes the potential mechanism(s) of the interactions, and 4) offers recommendations to the clinician. Since the majority of the original clinical trials, either for cardiac medications or psychotropic drugs, do not include studies comparing these two drug domains contemporaneously, their interactions often become known only with their combined use in the clinical arena, using the patient as "guinea pig," and through subsequent reporting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10665124
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10668836
The efficacy of lipid-lowering therapy (LLT) has been well established for patients with preexisting coronary artery disease (CAD). However, limited information is available assessing the extent to which these medications are prescribed in academic medical centers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10668858
Drug interactions occur when the efficacy or toxicity of a medication is changed by administration of another substance. Pharmacokinetic interactions often occur as a result of a change in drug metabolism. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 oxidises a broad spectrum of drugs by a number of metabolic processes. The location of CYP3A4 in the small bowel and liver permits an effect on both presystemic and systemic drug disposition. Some interactions with CYP3A4 inhibitors may also involve inhibition of P-glycoprotein. Clinically important CYP3A4 inhibitors include itraconazole, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, erythromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir and grapefruit juice. Torsades de pointes, a life-threatening ventricular arrhythmia associated with QT prolongation, can occur when these inhibitors are coadministered with terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride or pimozide. Rhabdomyolysis has been associated with the coadministration of some 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors ('statins') and CYP3A4 inhibitors. Symptomatic hypotension may occur when CYP3A4 inhibitors are given with some dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, as well with the phosphodiesterase inhibitor sildenafil. Excessive sedation can result from concomitant administration of benzodiazepine (midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or diazepam) or nonbenzodiazepine (zopiclone and buspirone) hypnosedatives with CYP3A4 inhibitors. Ataxia can occur with carbamazepine, and ergotism with ergotamine, following the addition of a CYP3A4 inhibitor. Beneficial drug interactions can occur. Administration of a CYP3A4 inhibitor with cyclosporin may allow reduction of the dosage and cost of the immunosuppressant. Certain HIV protease inhibitors, e.g. saquinavir, have low oral bioavailability that can be profoundly increased by the addition of ritonavir. The clinical importance of any drug interaction depends on factors that are drug-, patient- and administration-related. Generally, a doubling or more in plasma drug concentration has the potential for enhanced adverse or beneficial drug response. Less pronounced pharmacokinetic interactions may still be clinically important for drugs with a steep concentration-response relationship or narrow therapeutic index. In most cases, the extent of drug interaction varies markedly among individuals; this is likely to be dependent on interindividual differences in CYP3A4 tissue content, pre-existing medical conditions and, possibly, age. Interactions may occur under single dose conditions or only at steady state. The pharmacodynamic consequences may or may not closely follow pharmacokinetic changes. Drug interactions may be most apparent when patients are stabilised on the affected drug and the CYP3A4 inhibitor is then added to the regimen. Temporal relationships between the administration of the drug and CYP3A4 inhibitor may be important in determining the extent of the interaction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10673735
Treated hypertensive subjects may remain five times more likely to die of cardiac and cerebrovascular diseases than normotensive subjects with equivalent resting blood pressure (BP) levels. Research evidence suggests that exercise BP is a better predictor of end-organ damage and mortality than resting BP, and data from our centre show that a significant proportion of treated hypertensives have uncontrolled BP during a 5-min Dundee Step Test. The prognostic usefulness of exercise BP has yet to be translated into clinical practice because of the lack of a suitable technique. The Dundee Step Test is being evaluated in the ASCOT (Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcome Trial) study, a 5-year follow-up multicentre, multinational trial comparing the effect of newer (amlodipine and perindopril) and older (bendroflumethiazide and atenolol) antihypertensive agents stratified according to cholesterol levels on cardiac outcome. If the value of the Dundee Step Test is proven, then it may be adopted into routine clinical practice for the assessment of exercise BP. This may result in the improved management of hypertension with a subsequent reduction in morbidity and mortality. The publication of this study protocol is meant to be a statement of on-going research which may stimulate interest among those with an interest in this area of research. Journal of Human Hypertension (2000) 14, 75-78.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10674411
The intima-media thickness of the carotid artery has been established as a surrogate of definite atherosclerosis in subjects with high risk of vascular events. This study was done to evaluate the effectiveness of long-term antiplatelet therapy in attenuating progression of the intima-media thickness of the carotid artery of subjects with type 2 diabetes. Subjects who had an intima-media thickness over the threshold of the normal subjects but showed no symptoms of vascular events were randomly divided into groups given antiplatelet drugs [ticlopidine (n = 34) or a small dose of aspirin (n = 40)] or no drugs (n = 74). For the follow-up period (3.0+/-0.06 years), the subjects not given antiplatelet drugs showed a significantly higher progression of intima-media thickness (0.067+/-0.009 mm/year) than those given ticlopidine (0.034+/-0.013 mm/year) or aspirin (0.033+/-0.010 mm/year). Stepwise multivariant regression analysis showed that long-term administration of ticlopidine or aspirin significantly reduced the progression of intima-media thickness of diabetic subjects by 0.041 mm/year or 0.032 mm/ year, respectively. These data indicated that despite differences of their pharmacological mechanisms, antiplatelet drugs could attenuate the progression of intima-media thickness of the carotid artery wall of asymptomatic type 2 diabetics who had early-stage carotid atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10676597
Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent commonly used in the treatment of supraventricular and ventricular tachyarrhythmias. This paper reviews clinical trials in which amiodarone was used in one of the treatment arms. Key post-myocardial infarction trials include EMIAT and CAMIAT, both of which demonstrated that amiodarone reduced arrhythmic but not overall mortality. In patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), amiodarone was associated with a neutral survival in CHF/STAT and improvement in survival in GESICA. In patients with nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, the MADIT trial demonstrated that therapy with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) improved survival compared with the antiarrhythmic drug arm in such patients, most of whom were taking amiodarone. In sustained VT/VF patients, the CASCADE trial demonstrated that empiric amiodarone lowered arrhythmic recurrence rates compared with other drugs guided by serial Holter or electrophysiologic studies. Several trials including AVID, CIDS, and CASH have demonstrated the superiority of ICD therapy compared with empiric amiodarone in improving overall survival. Clinical implications of these trials are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10676770
Large and unusually large von Willebrand factor (vWf) multimers may be responsible for systemic platelet aggregation in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). This possibility is supported by studies that show deficient vWf-cleaving metalloproteinase and increased platelet-vWf binding during TTP episodes. In acute idiopathic TTP, decreased vWf metalloproteinase is the result of autoantibodies against the enzyme. In familial and acquired hemolytic-uremic syndrome, vWf-cleaving metalloproteinase activity is normal. A deficiency or defect in factor H, which normally dampens the activation of C3 via the alternative complement pathway, has been seen in some patients with familial hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Ticlopidine therapy is an important risk factor for TTP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10680023
This article extols the value of using Grant's approach to the interpretation of electrocardiograms (ECGs). The essay includes a discussion on how people learn and emphasizes the difference in memorizing information, thinking, and learning. Simply stated, the brains of most people are not designed to memorize countless numbers of ECG patterns. Accordingly, the essay supports the view that a method of interpretation must be used, and the reader is encouraged to use basic principles of electrocardiography, including vector concepts, to interpret each ECG.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10680028
Elevated levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol promote the development of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10680048
The results of recent trials indicate that statin treatment reduces not only the risk of coronary heart disease, but also the risk of stroke, in patients with existing heart disease. The need for the treatment of such patients is now generally recognized. Mechanisms for risk reduction include the retardation of plaque progression, plaque stabilization, and reducing the risk of coronary events. Questions remain regarding the discrepancy between epidemiological data and statin trials data, the precise mechanism of action of statins, and their role in the prevention of recurrent stroke in individuals who have experienced a previous stroke or transient ischemic attack but are free of coronary disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10680049
Statins have pleiotropic properties that complement their cholesterol-lowering effects. These properties may partly account for their established benefit in the prevention of coronary artery disease beyond the reduction of LDL-cholesterol levels. The most widely recognized properties are reviewed here. They include: (i) nitric oxide-mediated improvement of endothelial dysfunction and upregulation of endothelin-1 expression; (ii) antioxidant effects; (iii) anti-inflammatory properties; (iv) inhibition of cell proliferation with anticarcinogenic actions in animals; (v) stabilization of atherosclerotic plaques; (vi) anticoagulant effects; and (vii) inhibition of graft rejection after heart and kidney transplantation. As advances are made in our knowledge, new properties are steadily being uncovered. Pleiotropic effects are currently being given consideration when instituting combination therapy for patients at high cardiovascular risk. Some pleiotropic effects are negative, and may account for occasional untoward drug interactions. For many of these new properties, the clinical relevance has not been established. The challenge for the future will be to design and carry out appropriate clinical trials to establish their relative importance in the prevention of coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10680050
Recent epidemiological data have reaffirmed that elevated plasma triglyceride and low HDL-cholesterol levels are important risk factors for atherosclerotic vascular disease. The rationale for the clinical use of fibric acid derivatives, which are designed to correct this metabolic nexus, is now on firmer ground. The mechanism of action of fibrates on lipoprotein metabolism has recently been elucidated at the molecular level and involves the activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha 1 in the liver, with the net effect of improving the plasma transport rates of several lipoproteins. Other potential anti-atherothrombotic effects include the inhibition of coagulation and enhancement of fibrinolysis, as well as the inhibition of inflammatory mediators involved in atherogenesis. These consequences probably underpin the favourable effects of fibrates seen in recent angiographic and clinical trials. Two important clinical trials on the effect of gemfibrozil (Veterans Administration-HDL-Cholesterol Intervention Trial) and bezafibrate (Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention Study) have recently been completed in subjects with elevated triglyceride, low HDL and normal or near-normal LDL-cholesterol levels. The results testify to the efficacy of these agents in decreasing the incidence of cardiovascular events, particularly in patients with multiple risk factors and plasma triglyceride levels of over 2.2 mmol/l. The findings of these trials are compared with the statin-based Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study, with a recommendation that future studies in appropriately selected patients should examine the synergistic effect of the fibrate/statin combination. The absolute risk reduction in the incidence of coronary events in the Veterans Administration-HDL-Cholesterol Intervention Trial compares favourably with the statin trials. The therapeutic aspects of the efficacy and safety of fibrates are reviewed. Besides primary mixed hyperlipidaemias, particular indications for the clinical use of fibrates include type 2 diabetes, the metabolic syndrome and renal insufficiency. The St Mary's, Ealing, Northwick Park Diabetes Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Study has suggested that fibrates may decrease the incidence of coronary events in type 2 diabetes, but this hypothesis will be more extensively tested in the Diabetes Atherosclerosis Intervention Study, Fenofibrate in Event Lowering in Diabetes Study and Lipids in Diabetes Study projects. Although significant new knowledge has accrued over the past few years concerning the fundamental and clinical aspects of fibrates, the success of these agents in clinical practice depends on the availability of methods for assessing cardiovascular risk as well as on treatment guidelines, which as presently designed and recommended may be inaccurate and suboptimal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10682163
More than 10 million individuals in the United States currently have symptomatic coronary artery disease (CAD). Asymptomatic CAD is even more prevalent. CAD in the United States is responsible for approximately 1.5 million myocardial infarctions, 500,000 deaths, and a total economic burden in excess of $120 billion annually. Fortunately, CAD is preventable in many individuals. Our understanding of CAD has steadily progressed throughout the 20th century, and now several lines of evidence support the importance of cholesterol in both the genesis and management of coronary atherosclerosis. Following identification of the presence of cholesterol in atheromas, Anitschkov early this century demonstrated that atherosclerotic lesions can be induced in susceptible animals by high-saturated-fat and cholesterol diets. These lesions regressed when low-fat and cholesterol diets were resumed. In the 1970s and 1980s, findings from the landmark Framingham Heart, Seven Countries, and Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial studies firmly established that hypercholesterolemia was a major risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. During the 1980s and 1990s, 21 of 22 angiographic trials demonstrated reduced progression of coronary and/or carotid artery disease using lifestyle, drug, and surgical means for reducing cholesterol. The later trials commonly employed hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), reflecting increasing clinical use of these drugs. In 1988, the Adult Treatment Panel of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) published guidelines on testing and treating hypercholesterolemic patients, which outlined a more aggressive approach to cholesterol lowering than was currently in practice. Since 1994, five large cardiovascular event trials and a large angiographic trial have shown that aggressive cholesterol lowering reduces both cardiac morbidity and mortality, largely substantiating the NCEP guidelines. Although important clinical questions remain regarding patient subsets and treatment goals, lifestyle changes and appropriate drug therapy have proved to be highly effective in preventing initial and recurrent cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10685126
Benefit from the treatment of hyperlipidemia has now been conclusively documented, and this article has focused on the clinical trial data supporting diet and drug therapy in adult patients with different lipoprotein disorders and discussed therapeutic approaches with a focus on reducing plasma concentrations of LDL cholesterol. National guidelines for the use of hypolipidemic drugs are strongly supported by the clinical trials and have appropriately set lower target concentrations of LDL cholesterol for patients with established atherosclerosis or diabetic patients as compared with patients with more than two cardiovascular risk factors or, the lowest risk group, patients without evidence of atherosclerosis and fewer than two known cardiovascular risk factors. The goals of therapy in patients with established atherosclerosis are to prevent further progression and potentially induce regression, whereas in high-risk patients (e.g., those with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia) without evidence of atherosclerosis, the aims of therapy are to reduce LDL cholesterol to a concentration at which subclinical atherosclerosis and xanthomas regress and the patient does not develop premature cardiovascular disease. Evidence-based medicine strongly supports clinical benefit from the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in men and women with and without known coronary artery disease, and the main goal should be ensure that patients who could benefit from lipid-lowering therapy are effectively treated and followed to ensure long-term compliance, efficacy, and safety.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10686445
We performed a meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials of more than 6 months duration to describe how fatal and nonfatal strokes are related to cholesterol lowering and to the type of intervention. A total of 41 individual trials including approximately 80,000 subjects and followed for an average of about 4 years were included in the overview. There was a 16% (95% CI, 7-25%) reduction in risk of stroke among treated patients compared to control patients (test for heterogeneity, p = 0.76). When trials that used different interventions were separately examined, a significant reduction in stroke occurrence was observed only for those using statins as active treatment (risk reduction 23%; 95% CI 13-33%). A variance-weighted regression analysis of the logarithmic odds ratios for stroke incidence against the percentage of cholesterol reduction indicated that a reduction of fatal and nonfatal stroke can be obtained for a cholesterol reduction of 9% (95% CI 6.8-13.6%). The combined data of primary and secondary prevention trials indicate that a large reduction of blood cholesterol, achievable with statin drugs, can reduce the incidence of stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10686642
Familial hypercholesterolemia is characterized by a high plasma LDL-cholesterol level. The low-density particles are the end-product of the triglyceride-rich particles, i.e. VLDL, synthetized by the liver. These triglyceride-rich particles are subsequently transformed into intermediate density lipoprotein by the lipoprotein lipase and LDL after further triglyceride hydrolysis by the hepatic lipase. The LDL particles are taken up in all cells by the mean of the LDL receptor. A large body of evidence (including experimental, clinical, epidemiological data as well as the results of large trial with lipid lowering drugs) has accumulated to establish that these particles are one of the major causative factor of atherosclerosis and its complications. Two different mechanisms may be at work in the familial hypercholesterolemia: a mutation in the LDL receptor or a single mutation in the apolipoprotein B100. Specific therapeutic intervention should be undertaken to decrease the risk to develop cardiovascular disease, mainly coronary heart disease. The therapeutic intervention includes both a diet low in saturated fatty acids and cholesterol and statins which are now the first line therapy. Fibrates are proposed to those who do not tolerate statins and LDL-apheresis is associated to statin in the rare homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10690964
Statins represent a promising class of agents to prevent stroke. In randomized trials of middle-aged patients with coronary artery disease, statins reduce the incidence of stroke. The reduction in stroke may not be solely related to cholesterol or low-density lipoprotein reduction but may involve nonsterol mechanisms effects on endothelial cells, macrophages, platelets, and smooth muscle cells. Statins also reduce the size of cerebral infarction in a murine stroke model, suggesting a neuroprotective effect. The best current evidence for stroke prevention is with pravastatin and simvastatin. Pravastatin reduces the risk of stroke in patients with coronary artery disease and average cholesterol levels; simvastatin reduces the risk of the combined endpoint of stroke and transient ischemic attack in hypercholesterolemic patients with coronary artery disease. Future studies of statins are needed in stroke populations, particularly the elderly.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10692286
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10692735
A total of 531 patients from 57 hospital centres across the UK, who had previously been treated with lipid-lowering agents in combination or alone, in whom the degree of cholesterol reduction was insufficient to achieve European Atherosclerosis Society target levels, were treated with atorvastatin over a 12-week period. The dose of atorvastatin (10, 20 or 80 mg/day) was determined by assignment of risk based on entry level cholesterol levels and the presence of other established CHD risk factors. Atorvastatin was successful in achieving target LDL-cholesterol levels in 86% of mild risk patients, 88% of moderate risk patients and 52% of high risk patients. Compliance with atorvastatin was 96% and treatment was well tolerated. This study demonstrates that atorvastatin is effective in achieving target lipid levels in a large proportion of patients and that the dose required can be predicted by an assessment of the patient's risk profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10692755
This study compared the efficacy of simvastatin 80 mg and atorvastatin 80 mg in the treatment of 26 patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia over 12 weeks using an open crossover trial format. Both, similarly, reduced LDL by 47 +/- 13% and 43 +/- 16% and median triglycerides by 22% and 27% respectively. However, atorvastatin reduced HDL by 2 +/- 24% compared with 8 +/- 30% increase with simvastatin (p = 0.05) affecting the LDL:HDL ratio achieved (4.478 +/- 1.56 vs 3.74 +/- 0.93, p = 0.001). Atorvastatin raised median fibrinogen by 15% compared with a non-significant 5% increase with simvastatin (p = 0.05). Simvastatin reduced lipoprotein (a) by a median 20% compared with baseline (p = 0.05) compared with 5% for atorvastatin. Side-effects, mostly gastrointestinal, were seen in four patients (16%) with atorvastatin compared with one case of myalgia with simvastatin (4%). We conclude both drugs are equally effective in LDL reduction but that simvastatin is superior in raising HDL and causes fewer side-effects. These results require confirmation in larger studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10700443
A series of pro-oxidant and antioxidant enzymes, such as the NADPH oxidase system, maintain the redox state in the vessel wall. A major component of NADPH oxidase is p22(phox), which is implicated in atherosclerosis. We prospectively studied the association of the histidine (H)(72)-->tyrosine (Y) mutation in p22(phox) with the severity and progression/regression of coronary artery disease (CAD), plasma lipid levels, clinical events, and response to treatment with fluvastatin in a well-characterized population. Genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction digestion with RsaI enzyme in 368 subjects in the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS). Fasting plasma lipids and quantitative coronary angiograms were obtained at baseline and 2.5 years after randomization to fluvastatin or placebo. Subjects with CC genotype (n=157) were identified by the presence of 396-bp and 113-bp products on gel electrophoresis. Those with TT (n=39) were identified by the presence of 316-bp, 113-bp, and 80-bp products, and those with CT (n=172) by the presence of 396-bp, 316-bp, 113-bp, and 80-bp products. Baseline and final plasma levels of lipids and the baseline severity of CAD were not significantly different among the genotypes. In the placebo group, subjects with the mutation had a 3- to 5-fold greater loss in mean minimum lumen diameter (MLD) (TT: -0.15+/-0.15; CT: -0.17+/-0.26; and CC: -0.03+/-0.22 mm; P=0. 006) and lesion-specific MLD (TT: -0.15+/-0.06; CT: -0.18+/-0.03; and CC: -0.06+/-0.03 mm; P=0.038) than those without. Progression was also more (TT: 8/17 [47%]; CT: 35/73 [48%]; and CC: 17/62 [27%]) and regression less (TT: 0/17 [0%]; CT: 1/73 [1%]; and CC: 11/72 [18%]) common in those with the mutation (P=0.002). The C(242)T mutation in p22(phox), involved in maintaining the redox state in the vessel wall, is associated with progression of coronary atherosclerosis in the LCAS population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10702889
To assess the effects of cilostazol on lovastatin pharmacokinetics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10703153
The DALI (direct adsorption of lipoproteins) LDL-apheresis system is a novel device for the removal of lipoproteins from whole blood.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10703816
Members of the superfamily of Ras GTPase signalling proteins (monomeric G proteins) require post-translational carboxy-terminal prenylation to function. Prenylation is the covalent attachment of a hydrophobic prenyl group (either farnesyl or geranylgeranyl), which localises the GTPase to cell membranes. Ras proteins exert substantial control on cell proliferation and gene-transcription events, and prenylation inhibitors are now included in clinical trials for cancer. Many renal diseases are highly proliferative and are driven by a range of profibrotic cytokines. We hypothesise that inhibition of prenylation could be of substantial therapeutic benefit in such diseases, providing greater selectivity against abnormal cytokine-driven proliferation and fibrogenesis than current treatments available to nephrologists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10704621
A previous study has shown that simvastatin reduces in vivo clotting activation and monocyte tissue factor (TF) expression. This effect, however, was only in part attributable to the reduction of serum cholesterol, suggesting that more than one mechanism may be involved. Furthermore, it was not investigated if the inhibition of clotting activation was dependent upon the reduced expression of monocyte TF. In order to assess if simvastatin directly affects clotting activation, we developed an in vitro method in which clotting system is activated by monocytes stimulated with LPS. Monocytes were prepared from blood taken from healthy volunteers or patients with hypercholesterolemia and incubated with heparinized plasma plus either simvastatin (0.01-10 microM) or medium as control. Samples were then stimulated with LPS (4 microg/ml) and after 6 h the rate of thrombin generation, assessed by prothrombin fragment (F) 1+2, was measured. In separate experiments, we measured the expression of TF by monocytes which were incubated with simvastatin and then stimulated with LPS. The study showed that compared to control, LPS-stimulated monocytes induced abundant formation of F1+2, which was inhibited by simvastatin in a dose-dependent manner. Simvastatin also inhibited dose dependently the monocyte expression of TF. This study suggests that simvastatin inhibits the rate of thrombin generation by directly interfering with the monocyte expression of TF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10704623
Data pooled from 21 atorvastatin clinical trials have been analyzed to establish the safety of reducing low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels below currently recommended minimum targets in hypercholesterolemic patients. Safety data for atorvastatin-treated patients with at least one LDL-C value < or =80 mg/dl (2.1 mmol/l) (n = 319) during treatment (mean LDL-C level throughout treatment was 91 mg/dl [2.4 mmol/l]) were compared to those from all atorvastatin-treated patients (n = 2502) and patients treated with lovastatin, simvastatin or pravastatin (n = 742). The frequency of treatment-associated adverse events (AEs) in the atorvastatin LDL-C < or =80 mg/dl (2.1 mmol/l) subgroup (24%) was comparable to the frequencies observed for all atorvastatin-treated patients (20%) and for patients receiving the other statins (24%). Patient withdrawals due to treatment-associated AEs (constipation, dyspepsia and flatulence being the most common) were consistent and low across treatment groups. No treatment-associated deaths occurred in any group. Safety data for 21 atorvastatin-treated patients with LDL-C < or =50 mg/dl (1.3 mmol/l) were also analyzed and found to be similar to all atorvastatin-treated patients and patients treated with the other statins. While recognizing the short-term nature of the data (all patients who received atorvastatin were treated for < or =1 year and approximately 30% were treated for < or =6 months), this analysis suggests that reducing LDL-C levels below 80 (2.1 mmol/l) or 50 mg/dl (1.3 mmol/l) with atorvastatin does not alter its safety profile, as measured by frequency of AEs, which remains similar to those of other statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10704632
A total of 1028 hypercholesterolaemic men and women aged 18-75 participated in an open label, randomised, parallel group, 6-month treatment-to-target study conducted in 240 general practices throughout Australia. The study compared atorvastatin monotherapy with simvastatin monotherapy or, if necessary, with the combination of simvastatin and cholestyramine in terms of their abilities to achieve a plasma total cholesterol target of<5.0 mmol/l. The initial daily dose of each drug was 10 mg. If the target was not achieved, the dose was doubled at 6 week intervals to a maximum daily dose of 80 mg atorvastatin or 40 mg simvastatin, with the simvastatin supplemented if necessary with 4 g cholestyramine. The percentage of patients achieving the target at 10 and 20 mg doses of atorvastatin were comparable to 20 and 40 mg of simvastatin, respectively. Despite relatively high baseline levels of plasma total cholesterol (mean levels of 7.41 and 7.31 mmol/l in the atorvastatin and simvastatin groups, respectively) the majority of patients in each group achieved the plasma total cholesterol target of<5.0 mmol/l. Treatment with atorvastatin achieved the target in 83% of patients, while simvastatin (or simvastatin plus cholestyramine) achieved the target in 66% of the patients (P<0.005). The target was achieved with 10 mg atorvastatin in 38% of patients and with 10 mg simvastatin in 26% of cases (P<0.005). In patients whose baseline cholesterol levels were between 5.6 and 6.5 mmol/l, 95% of the atorvastatin group and 86% of the simvastatin group reached the target. Even with baseline cholesterol levels between 7.6 and 8.5 mmol/l, the target was reached in 78% of the atorvastatin group and 61% of the simvastatin group. It is thus realistic for general practitioners to expect the majority of their at risk patients to achieve target plasma cholesterol levels that have been shown in population studies to be associated with relatively low rates of coronary heart disease. These targets are achieved in significantly more patients and at lower mg doses with atorvastatin than simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10709162
This study was conducted to evaluate the potential pharmacokinetic interaction between fenofibrate and pravastatin. A total of 23 healthy adult volunteers received single-dose 201 mg fenofibrate alone, 201 mg fenofibrate + 40 mg pravastatin, and 40 mg pravastatin alone in a three-period crossover experiment. Plasma samples were collected at predetermined times and were analyzed with validated methods for the quantitation of fenofibric acid, pravastatin, and 3 alpha-hydroxy-isopravastatin (3 alpha-iso-PV). Pharmacokinetic parameters of these three compounds were calculated using noncompartmental methods and compared by analyses of variance and bioavailability assessments. Concomitant administration of fenofibrate and pravastatin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either fenofibric acid or pravastatin. However, the AUC0-infinity and Cmax of 3 alpha-iso-PV were increased by 26% and 29%, respectively. The moderate increase in the formation of this pravastatin metabolite should not raise any clinical concerns due to its much lower pharmacological potency compared to pravastatin and lack of toxicity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10709776
This article reviews the metabolic pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions with the systemic antifungal agents: the azoles ketoconazole, miconazole, itraconazole and fluconazole, the allylamine terbinafine and the sulfonamide sulfamethoxazole. The majority of these interactions are metabolic and are caused by inhibition of cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated hepatic and/or small intestinal metabolism of coadministered drugs. Human liver microsomal studies in vitro, clinical case reports and controlled pharmacokinetic interaction studies in patients or healthy volunteers are reviewed. A brief overview of the CYP system and the contrasting effects of the antifungal agents on the different human drug-metabolising CYP isoforms is followed by discussion of the role of P-glycoprotein in presystemic extraction and the modulation of its function by the antifungal agents. Methods used for in vitro drug interaction studies and in vitro-in vivo scaling are then discussed, with specific emphasis on the azole antifungals. Ketoconazole and itraconazole are potent inhibitors of the major drug-metabolising CYP isoform in humans, CYP3A4. Coadministration of these drugs with CYP3A substrates such as cyclosporin, tacrolimus, alprazolam, triazolam, midazolam, nifedipine, felodipine, simvastatin, lovastatin, vincristine, terfenadine or astemizole can result in clinically significant drug interactions, some of which can be life-threatening. The interactions of ketoconazole with cyclosporin and tacrolimus have been applied for therapeutic purposes to allow a lower dosage and cost of the immunosuppressant and a reduced risk of fungal infections. The potency of fluconazole as a CYP3A4 inhibitor is much lower. Thus, clinical interactions of CYP3A substrates with this azole derivative are of lesser magnitude, and are generally observed only with fluconazole dosages of > or =200 mg/day. Fluconazole, miconazole and sulfamethoxazole are potent inhibitors of CYP2C9. Coadministration of phenytoin, warfarin, sulfamethoxazole and losartan with fluconazole results in clinically significant drug interactions. Fluconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP2C19 in vitro, although the clinical significance of this has not been investigated. No clinically significant drug interactions have been predicted or documented between the azoles and drugs that are primarily metabolised by CYP1A2, 2D6 or 2E1. Terbinafine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 and may cause clinically significant interactions with coadministered substrates of this isoform, such as nortriptyline, desipramine, perphenazine, metoprolol, encainide and propafenone. On the basis of the existing in vitro and in vivo data, drug interactions of terbinafine with substrates of other CYP isoforms are unlikely.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10709902
Elevated factor VII coagulant activity (FVII:C) has been associated with an increased risk of ischaemic heart disease, particularly for fatal events. Results of studies on the association between FVII:C and atherosclerosis are not consistent. FVII:C levels are influenced by several environmental factors and by genetic factors. One of the genetic factors is the -323Ins10 polymorphism in the promoter region of the factor VII gene, which is strongly related to FVII:C, and thus may be associated with ischaemic heart disease. We studied the association of this polymorphism with the severity and progression of atherosclerosis. In 511 male patients of the Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study, the genotype for the -323Ins10 polymorphism was determined. The minimum obstruction diameter and the mean segment diameter were determined at baseline and after a 2-year follow-up period, and new lesion formation was assessed as well. Cardiovascular events were recorded. No relationship was observed between the -323Ins10 polymorphism and angiographic measures of disease progression, nor on the risk of new cardiovascular events. The results suggest that there is no association between the -323Ins10 polymorphism for factor VII and the severity or progression of coronary atherosclerosis in male patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10710119
Hyperlipidemia is an important cardiovascular risk factor. Lipid-lowering therapy has been shown to decrease morbidity and mortality in these patients. Combination therapy with a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor and a fibric-acid derivative has been reported to be more efficacious to reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides but may be associated with an increased risk of myositis. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of fluvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, alone and in combination with bezafibrate, a fibric-acid derivative. In a randomized controlled trial with 454 hypercholesterolemic patients (mean cholesterol, 8.6 +/- 1.6 mM), fluvastatin (20 mg/day) significantly lowered total plasma cholesterol levels (-12.5%; p < 0.0001 vs. placebo), LDL cholesterol (-14%; p < 0.0001), and triglycerides (-4%; p = 0.05). A small increase in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels (3%, NS) also was observed. Combination therapy with fluvastatin and bezafibrate (400 mg/day) in 71 patients with persistent hypertriglyceridemia during treatment with the statin resulted in a more pronounced reduction in triglyceride (-47%; p < 0.0001) and total cholesterol levels (-15%; p < 0.0001) than did fluvastatin alone. Furthermore, the additional bezafibrate significantly increased HDL cholesterol (+5%; p < 0.001). No significant increases in creatine phosphokinase levels or in frequency of myalgia were observed. In summary, fluvastatin decreases both cholesterol and triglyceride levels. In patients with persistent hypertriglyceridemia, combination therapy with fluvastatin and bezafibrate may be safely used to lower triglyceride and cholesterol levels more efficiently.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10710121
This study was performed to ascertain the effects of short-term cholesterol-lowering therapy with fluvastatin on red blood cells Na+ transport systems. Forty familial hypercholesterolemic subjects (FH; 19 men and 21 women) without hypertension or cardiovascular disease were given a placebo for 4 weeks, and then randomized in two groups. Twenty (fluvastatin group) were given fluvastatin (40 mg/day), and the other 20 (placebo group) continued placebo administration. After the placebo period and after 4 and 12 weeks of placebo or fluvastatin treatment, we measured Na+/K+ pump activity, Na+/K+ cotransport (Na+/K+ Ct), Na+/Li+ countertransport (Na+/Li+ Cnt), passive Na+ permeability (Na+PP), and internal Na+ content (Na+i). The same parameters were measured in 23 control subjects (C) with normal cholesterolemic values, who were matched for sex and age. FH had higher Na+/Li+ Cnt values than C (193.2 +/- 59.4 vs. 139.8 +/- 48.7 microM cells/h; p < 0.01), an increase in Na(+)PP (0.034 +/- 0.012/h vs. 0.018 +/- 0.004/h; p < 0.001), and higher Na(+)i (7.5 +/- 1.5 vs. 6.2 +/- 0.9 mM cells; p < 0.001). In hypercholesterolemic subjects, Na(+)i values were correlated with cholesterol (total and LDL) and apo B levels, whereas an inverse correlation was found for HDL-c and apo AI levels. Reduced total and LDL cholesterol and apo B levels after fluvastatin treatment caused a decrease in both Na(+)/Li(+) Cnt (from 186.1 +/- 60.5 to 125.1 +/- 34.0 microM cells/h; p < 0.001) and Na(+) PP (from 0.035 +/- 0.013/h to 0.02 +/- 0.016/h; p < 0.01), and an increase in Na+/K+ pump activity (from 1,549.0 +/- 507.7 to 1,894.2 +/- 536.2 microM cells/h; p < 0.04), with a significant reduction in the internal Na+ content (from 7.5 +/- 1.6 to 5.8 +/- 2.4 mM cells; p < 0.001). Our findings show that hypercholesterolemia affects red blood cell Na+ transport systems, with an increase in Na+/Li+Cnt, Na+PP, and the internal Na+ content. Cholesterol-lowering treatment with fluvastatin influences Na+ transport systems and reduces the internal Na+ content. This might also be responsible for the greater vascular reactivity observed in hypercholesterolemic patients, and its amelioration after a reduction in cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10713909
Acute myocardial infarction (MI) is the leading cause of death around the globe. Advances in the field of cardiology have identified several effective treatments that have lead to decrease in mortality from this cause over the past 3 decades. The purpose of this article is to review the existing literature in regards to secondary prevention after acute MI. A search of MEDLINE through August of 1999 was carried out to identify any available publications on secondary prevention after MI. Evidence on the use of both pharmacological and nonpharmacological interventions that was shown to be effective in improving morbidity and mortality was sought. Recommendations for the treatment of patients with acute MI are made based on existing evidence. Betablockers, aspirin and lipid-lowering agents for patients with low density lipoprotein-cholesterol > 130 mg% should be used for all patients following a MI. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are indicated for patients with congestive heart failure and/or reduced left ventricular ejection fraction and are likely protective in most patients. Calcium channel blockers (Verapamil and Diltiazem) are indicated as second-line therapy for patients who have contraindications or are intolerant to betablockers. The routine prophylactic use of antiarrhythmic drugs to suppress ventricular ectopic beats should be avoided. Recommendations regarding diet, smoking cessation and achievement of ideal body weight should be an integral part of patient management. Referral for outpatient rehabilitation should also be strongly encouraged. Finally, adequate control of blood pressure and diabetes cannot be overemphasized. Adherence to these goals in patients with acute MI will lead to better long-term outcomes and reduction in cardiac death, recurrent MI, stroke, and need for coronary revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10715431
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10715475
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10716454
Atherosclerotic lesions of the thoracic aorta have recently been recognized as an important cause of stroke and peripheral embolization, which may result in severe neurologic damage as well as multiorgan failure and death. Their prevalence is approximately 27% in patients with previous embolic events. Transesophageal echocardiography is the modality of choice for the diagnosis of these atheromas, although computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperative epiaortic ultrasound are complementary. Two clinical syndromes account for the embolic phenomena, atheroemboli and, more commonly, thromboemboli. In addition to such superimposed thrombi, plaque thickness (especially > or =4 mm) also correlates with embolic risk. This risk is high, with 12% of patients having a recurrent stroke within approximately one year, and up to 33% of patients having a stroke or peripheral embolus. In addition, aortic atheromas (as seen with intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography and intraoperative epiaortic ultrasound) are an important cause of stroke during heart surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. Such strokes occur during approximately 12% of cardiac operations employing cardiopulmonary bypass when aortic arch atheromas are seen with transesophageal echocardiography (six times the general intraoperative stroke rate). Although anticoagulant strategies have been reported with encouraging results in nonrandomized studies, prospective, randomized data must be developed before an effective and safe treatment strategy can be determined. This review details the current state of knowledge in this area, including the clinical and pathologic evidence that thoracic aortic atherosclerosis is an important embolic source, data which guide current therapy and future directions for clinical investigation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10719651
Hypercholesterolemia has not been considered an important risk factor for stroke; however, statin therapy reduces stroke in coronary heart disease patients. Statins may provide cerebrovascular protection through various mechanisms that include a reduction in the incidence of embolic stroke from cardiac, aortic and carotid sites, stabilization of vulnerable carotid atherosclerotic plaque, and improvement in cerebral blood flow.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10720052
Recently, it was reported that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors increased bone mineral density (BMD) in mice. We studied the effect of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on BMD of type 2 diabetes mellitus by a retrospective review of medical records. Sixty-nine type 2 diabetic patients were included. The control group (n = 33) did not take HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. The treatment group (n = 36) was administered either lovastatin, pravastatin, or simvastatin. BMD of the spine, femoral neck, femoral trochanter, and total hip were measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. There were no significant differences between control and treatment groups in age, sex, body mass index, glycemic control, and serum insulin levels. In the control group, BMD of the spine significantly decreased (from 1.116 +/- 0.165 to 1.081 +/- 0.178 g/cm2) after 14 months. In the treatment group, BMD of the femoral neck significantly increased (from 0.853 +/- 0.139 to 0.878 +/- 0.147 g/cm2) after 15 months. In male subjects treated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, there was a significant increase in BMD of the femoral neck and femoral trochanter (from 0.899 +/- 0.139 to 0.934 +/- 0.139 and from 0.801 +/- 0.145 to 0.833 +/- 0.167 g/cm2, respectively), but in female subjects, only BMD of the femoral neck increased (from 0.819 +/- 0.132 to 0.834 +/- 0.143 g/cm2). Percentage increments of BMD of the femoral neck, femoral wards triangle, femoral trochanter, and total hip in the treatment group were significantly higher than in the control group (2.32% vs. -0.99, 1.77% vs. -1.25%, 1.40% vs. -1.21%, 0.88% vs. -1.03%, respectively). The proportion of subjects who had an increase in BMD of the spine and total hip more than two percentages was significantly larger in the treatment group than in the control group (30.6% vs. 15.2% and 30.6% vs. 9.1%, respectively). The increased increment in BMD of the treatment group was significantly greater than those in the control group after adjustment for age and body mass index (P < 0.05). These results suggest that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may increase BMD of the femur in male patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10728955
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10732848
Fifteen patients with either angina pectoris or old myocardial infarction, who had positive 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging and coronary sclerosis of more than 50%, were treated with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (simvastatin) for more than 1 year. They were compared with an untreated control group (n = 25). Total cholesterol decreased 22% and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) increased 9% with simvastatin; both changes were significantly different from those in controls. Long-term simvastatin induced improvement of myocardial perfusion on 201Tl SPECT images both during exercise and at rest, which was also significantly different from controls. In addition, the improvement of myocardial perfusion on 201Tl SPECT images was clearly related to the improvements in cholesterol values, especially nonHDL cholesterol. Thus, the greater the decrease in nonHDL cholesterol, the greater the improvement in myocardial perfusion at rest or during exercise with long-term treatment using an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. These findings indicate that the improvements in cholesterol values caused by HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy are related to improvements of myocardial perfusion seen on 201Tl SPECT images.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10732883
This study was performed to assess the effect of treatment with ramipril on the incidence of cardiac events after invasive revascularization in patients with asymptomatic moderate left ventricular dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10732886
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10732887
We sought to evaluate the impact of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and medical treatment on self-perceived quality of life among patients with angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10736278
Carriers of the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene are at a higher risk of coronary heart disease than individuals with other genotypes. We examined whether the risk of death or a major coronary event in survivors of myocardial infarction depended on apolipoprotein E genotype and whether the benefits of treatment with simvastatin differed between genotypes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10740137
Statins are the most effective agents currently available for lowering plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and are the mainstay of therapy for hyperlipidemia. The statins are highly liver-selective, inhibiting 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, a key enzyme in the synthesis of cholesterol. Several large, controlled clinical trials have confirmed significant reductions in rates of coronary heart disease morbidity and death with long-term statin therapy in patients with mild to severe hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10740160
The favorable effects of lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol on reducing clinical events in patients with coronary disease have been well established. The mechanisms responsible for this benefit, however, have not been fully understood. This study examined the impact of lipid-lowering therapy on endothelium-dependent vasoreactivity in a subgroup of patients after myocardial infarction with average cholesterol levels who participated in the Cholesterol Recurrent Events (CARE) study to determine whether an effect on endothelial function is a viable mechanism for the observed reduction in clinical events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10742707
Impaired insulin sensitivity has been linked with chronic heart failure (CHF). Exercise has a beneficial effect on insulin sensitivity in healthy subjects. It is used also as an adjunctive therapy in patients with CHF. We studied the effect of randomized treatment with celiprolol, a vasodilating beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist, 200 mg once daily (n=20) or placebo (n=11) on serum lipid levels and insulin sensitivity in patients with CHF. In addition, all subjects participated in a 6-month exercise training protocol. Thirteen subjects in the celiprolol and eight subjects in the control group were on additional beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist as part of their tailored CHF therapy. Insulin sensitivity was determined using the hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp test (diabetic subjects excluded, n=11 for the celiprolol group and n=8 for the placebo group).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10743305
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10743480
Total substitution of soyabean protein for animal protein in the diet has been repeatedly shown to lower plasma cholesterol levels in hypercholesterolaemic individuals. A new, highly palatable, high-protein soya drink may allow replacement of a significant percentage of animal protein in the diet. The soya drink was given, within a crossover design v. a cows' milk preparation of similar composition and taste, to twenty-one severely hypercholesterolaemic patients (mean baseline plasma cholesterol 8.74 mmol/l) with a history of resistance to or intolerance of statin treatment. Each dietary supplement was given for 4 weeks, with a 4-week interval between treatments, Plasma lipid levels were monitored every 2 weeks during each dietary sequence. The concomitant dietary treatment, which had been followed for a long time by all patients, was carefully monitored throughout the study. The soya supplementation reduced plasma total cholesterol level by 6.5%, when given first, and by 7.4% when given after cows' milk. When given first, cows' milk resulted in a small, non-significant reduction of plasma cholesterol level (-3.9%), and when given after soya, it changed total plasma cholesterol to a minimal extent (-1.6%). Changes in total and LDL-cholesterol levels after 2 and 4 weeks of soya v. cows' milk treatment were, thus, respectively -6.1, -7.0 and -6.2, -7.8% (both P < 0.05). These first data from a double-blind study confirm a significant cholesterol-lowering effect of soyabean protein, even when only partly replacing animal protein in the diet, in individuals with extreme plasma cholesterol elevations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10743692
A randomized study of combined kidney-pancreas transplantation was performed on 30 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease to compare the consequences of pancreas transplantation with portal venous (PV) and systemic venous (SV) drainage. Fourteen patients (SV) group) received systemically drained and sixteen (PV group) portally drained pancreas allografts. Enteric drainage was performed in both groups. The routine follow-up included documentation of the clinical course and detailed endocrine studies. At 1 year after transplantation, the patient survival rate was 92% for the SV group and 96% for the PV group; the graft survival rate was 78% and 82%, respectively. Endocrine studies indicated no difference in fasting and stimulated glucose or in glycosylated hemoglobin between the two groups. In addition, no hyperinsulinemia and lipidic abnormalities were evidenced in either group Long-term studies are required to conclude whether PV and SV drainage in pancreas transplantation are equivalent in terms of patient and graft survival as well as metabolic consequences.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10745972
The optimum management of dyslipidaemia requires a comprehensive, diagnostic work-up. This, minimally, includes: Characterisation of any hyperlipidaemic disorder present. Identification of additional risk factors so as to assess overall (global) risk of future coronary heart disease (CHD). The global risk is best assessed by a calculation combining the risk factors in the individual. In severe monogenic dyslipidaemias and in patients with confirmed pre-existing CHD the risk is usually high; in most such cases the use of lipid-modifying drugs (LMDs) is indicated. Assessment of psychosocial, economic and educational factors relevant to management. Prevention and cost-effective management of even moderately dyslipidaemic patients require appropriate modification of lifestyle: avoidance of tobacco smoking, participation in regular exercise, and a health-promoting diet. Depending on individual circumstance, vigorous, personalised intervention and expert assistance from dieticians, biokineticists and other health care personnel may determine success. The correct choice of patient for drug treatment is a key therapeutic decision and is best done after full lifestyle modification. Recent evidence confirms that appropriately prescribed LMD therapy can lower morbidity and mortality from CHD as well as all-cause mortality. Patients with the following features are candidates for LMD therapy: have clinical CHD and a low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLC) level > 3.0 mmol/l despite optimum non-pharmacological intervention, or suffer from familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) or equivalent severe, monogenic disorder, or have a 10-year risk of an acute clinical coronary event of > 20% (or > 30% risk if extrapolated to the age of 60 years) owing to the presence of the hyperlipidaemia alone or in combination with contributory risk factors. The ideal target LDLC concentration is < or = 3 mmol/l, but a reduction of at least 45% should be regarded as a minimum target in severe cases who do not reach this goal. Successful therapy requires on-going attention to compliance, therapeutic response and side-effects, and may necessitate adjustment or reinforcement. Concurrent or contributory conditions, such as smoking, hypertension and diabetes mellitus, must also be treated along with the clinically manifest CHD. Severely hyperlipidaemic, complicated or unresponsive high-risk cases should be referred to an appropriate specialist or lipid clinic. Prevention of CHD in the community should be encouraged through public and professional education, the provision of community facilities for exercise and recreation, and legislation directed at reducing the use of tobacco products and ensuring the appropriate labelling of food products.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10750701
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10760335
The effect of statins on the development of restenosis and clinical outcome after coronary stent implantation was assessed in a retrospective analysis of 525 consecutive patients. Baseline clinical, angiographic, and procedural characteristics did not differ between 258 patients with and 267 patients without statin therapy. Statin therapy was associated with a significantly (p<0.04) improved survival free of myocardial infarction and a significant reduction in repeat target vessel revascularization procedures (27.9% vs. 36.7%, p<0.05) during 6-month follow-up. Minimal lumen diameter was significantly larger (1.98+/-0.88 vs. 1.78+/-0.88 mm, p = 0.01), late lumen loss was significantly less (0.64+/-0.8 vs. 0.8+/-0.8 mm, p = 0.032), and net gain significantly increased (1.2+/-0.88 vs. 0.98+/- 0.92 mm, p = 0. 009) in patients receiving statin therapy. Dichotomous angiographic restenosis (> or =50%) rates were significantly lower, with 25.4% in the statin group compared with 38% in the no-statin group (p<0.005). Multivariate analysis identified statin therapy (p = 0.005), minimal lumen diameter immediately after stenting (p = 0.02), and stent length (p = 0.02) as independent predictors for subsequent restenosis development. Thus, statin therapy is associated with reduced recurrence rates and improved clinical outcome after coronary stent implantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10761170
To test the effects of fluvastatin on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, the authors measured LDL receptor activity in stimulated T-lymphocytes prepared from 34 patients before and after treatment with 40 mg fluvastatin daily for 12 weeks. Maximally induced pretreatment LDL receptor activities did not correlate with pretreatment plasma cholesterol levels or with changes in plasma cholesterol levels during treatment, and there were no significant changes in LDL receptor activity during treatment. Barring methodological problems, two explanations are possible. Insofar that LDL receptor activity in lymphocytes reflects LDL receptor activity in the liver, the results suggest that the primary response to treatment with fluvastatin in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) patients is not enhanced LDL receptor activity. Alternatively, fluvastatin increases LDL receptor activity in hepatocytes but has little effect on receptor-dependent lipoprotein catabolism in extrahepatic tissues in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10762175
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10769417
Lipid lowering therapies and aggressive life style modifications can induce regression of coronary artery disease as demonstrated by several angiographic studies. Such regression has also been associated with greatly reduced cardiovascular event rates. However, coronary angiography is invasive and expensive and other non-invasive diagnostic approaches would be preferable. Electron beam computed tomography imaging is used to detect coronary artery calcification, it is non-invasive and considerably less expensive than angiography. This tool provides an opportunity to serially monitor the effectiveness of medical therapy for coronary artery disease via the follow-up of a surrogate marker of disease such as vascular calcification. We review the current status of the literature on the use of electron beam computed tomography as a tool to follow progression of disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10770975
Over a 9-yr period, heart transplantation was performed in 200 patients at Sahlgrenska University Hospital. Of these 200 patients, 151 were followed for 1 to 9 yr with regard to renal function, hemodynamics, cyclosporin A concentrations, and complications. Patients with a preoperative serum creatinine >130 micromol/L received inotropic drugs to test for reversibility of renal dysfunction. The end point was graft failure. The average preoperative GFR of 66 +/- 17 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) declined to 52 +/- 19, 44 +/- 16, and 37 +/- 17 at 1, 5, and 9 yr after heart transplantation, respectively. Altogether, the average GFR declined by 44%. There was no significant correlation between the preoperative GFR and postoperative renal function or survival. Recipient age was a predictor of renal function during the entire follow-up. Severe renal dysfunction (GFR <20 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)) developed in 20% of the patients, which was predicted by the recipient age at transplantation together with the GFR 1 yr after transplantation. A nomogram that shows the risk of developing severe renal dysfunction after heart transplantation is presented. Cyclosporin A concentrations and treatment with statins, calcium channel blockers, or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors did not correlate with the evolution of renal function. Patients with a preoperative depressed renal function who improved on inotropic treatment seemed to have a poorer outcome compared with the other study patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10772372
This randomized, controlled trial evaluated the impact of personalized follow-up on compliance rates in high-risk patients receiving combination lipid-lowering therapy over 2 years. A random sample of 30 patients 7-30 days after cardiac surgery had baseline fasting low-density lipoprotein levels higher than 130 mg/dl. All patients received lovastatin 20 mg/day and colestipol 5 g twice/day. Weekly telephone contact was made with each patient for 12 weeks. Short- and long-term compliance was assessed by pill and packet counts and refill records. Compliance and lipid profile results were significantly better in the intervention group (p<0.05) up to 2 years after the start of therapy than in the control group for all parameters except high-density lipoprotein. However, this effect was not apparent during the first 12 weeks of therapy. Short-term telephone follow-up favorably affected compliance and lipid profile results up to 2 years after start of therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10774784
High serum cholesterol has been frequently reported in patients with arterial hypertension in whom it might influence the blood pressure control. The aim of this study was to compare the extent of blood pressure changes in 41 patients with hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, taking antihypertensive drugs and treated for 3 months with statins (HC-S; pravastatin or simvastatin) and compared with matched controls with high (HC-D; 44) or normal serum cholesterol (NC-D; 45) undergoing antihypertensive treatment combined with dietary treatment alone. After 3 months of follow-up, a greater reduction of systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure values was observed in HC-S patients (ASBP/DBP, -11.3 +/-3/-10.6 +/- 2%) when compared with both HC-D (deltaSBP/DBP, -6.6 +/- 2/-6.1 +/- 2%; p < 0.05) and NC-D (deltaSBP/DBP, -6.9 +/- 2/-6.8 +/- 1.5%; p < 0.05). In statin-treated patients, a slight linear relation has been found between the percentage changes in DBP and those in plasma total cholesterol (R = 0.37, p = 0.043), whereas no relation was found with SBP changes (R =0.11; p = 0.35). In conclusion, the results of this study demonstrate that the use of statins in combination with antihypertensive drugs can improve blood pressure control in patients with uncontrolled hypertension and high serum cholesterol levels. The additional blood pressure reduction observed in patients treated with statins is clinically relevant and only partially related to the lipid-lowering effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10781516
To determine if 3 year treatment of hypercholesterolaemia with simvastatin causes an increase of lens nuclear back scattering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10781640
We investigated the effects of estrogen and simvastatin, administered both alone and in combination, on the plasma lipid levels and lipoprotein-related enzymes in 45 postmenopausal women with type IIa hypercholesterolemia. They received 0.625 mg conjugated equine estrogen (n=15), 5 mg simvastatin (n=15), or the combination (n=15) daily for 3 months. We measured the concentrations of cholesterol and triglyceride in the plasma, and in the very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL)1 (1.019<d<1.045 g/ml) and LDL2 (1.045<d<1.063 g/ml), and high-density lipoprotein (HDL)2 (1.063<d<1.125 g/ml) and HDL3 (1.125<d<1.210 g/ml) subfractions, and apolipoproteins, and the activities of lipoprotein-metabolizing enzyme before and after treatment. All three treatments significantly lowered the plasma levels of total cholesterol, LDL1 cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B, C-II, and E. In combination therapy, significantly reduced levels of VLDL, IDL, and LDL2 cholesterol were also obtained. Combination therapy lowered total and LDL1 cholesterol significantly more than did estrogen alone. Estrogen and combination therapy significantly increased the levels of cholesterol in the HDL2 subfraction, triglyceride in the HDL2 and HDL3 subfractions, and apolipoprotein A-I and A-II. Estrogen treatment, but not combination therapy, also significantly raised the levels of total and IDL triglyceride. Estrogen and combined therapies significantly lowered the activities of hepatic triglyceride lipase and lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase. Findings indicate that combination therapy with estrogen plus simvastatin favorably affected lipid metabolism by reducing the concentrations of VLDL and IDL particles as well as large and small LDL particles, increasing the concentration of HDL particles, and preventing estrogen-induced increases in plasma triglyceride levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10781642
One hundred and ninety-five aged (mean age: 67+/-4.8 years), non-insulin dependent diabetic patients underwent a randomised single-blind study for investigating the effect of statin administration on insulin resistance and respiratory quotient. After 4 weeks run-in period, all patients were randomised in three groups: placebo (n=67), simvastatin (10 mg/day) (n=61) and atorvastatin (5 mg/day) (n=67). Each treatment period lasted 8 weeks. At the beginning, after the run-in and at the end of the study, insulin resistance was assessed by homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) index, while respiratory quotient (Rq) was evaluated by indirect calorimetry. Statins versus placebo significantly lowered plasma total, LDL-, HDL-cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations and improved insulin resistance and Rq and metabolic control. Atorvastatin had a greater effect than simvastatin on plasma triglyceride concentration (-26.3+/-3.1 vs. -19.7+/-2.8%, P<0.03), HOMA index (-13.1+/-0.6 vs. -9.1+/-0.9%, P<0.05), Rq (5.9+/-0.4 vs. 3.1+/-0.5%, P<0.05) and glycosylated haemoglobin (-11.2+/-0.3 vs. -7. 1+/-0.4%, P<0.05). In the whole group of subjects (n=195) and at the end of the study, changes in plasma triglyceride concentrations were significantly correlated with the change in the HOMA index (r=0.44, P<0.001) and age and BMI adjusted-Rq (r=-0.32, P<0.005). Multivariate analyses demonstrated that decline in plasma triglyceride concentration was a significant determinant for explaining the effect of statin on insulin resistance and Rq. In conclusion our study demonstrates that statin administration is useful for controlling dyslipidemia in NIDDM patients and for improving the metabolic control. With regard to this latter aim, atorvastatin seems to be more powerful than simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10783009
Pneumocystis carinii is the paradigm of opportunistic infections in immunocompromised mammals. Prior to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) pandemic and the use of immunosuppressive therapy in organ transplant and cancer patients, P. carinii was regarded as a curiosity, rarely observed clinically. Interest in this organism exploded when it was identified as the agent of P. carinii pneumonia (PcP), the direct cause of death among many AIDS patients. Aggressive prophylaxis has decreased the number of acute PcP cases, but it remains among the most prevalent opportunistic infections found within this patient population. The taxonomic assignment of P. carinii has long been argued; molecular genetics data now demonstrate that it is a fungus. Several antimycotic drugs are targeted against ergosterol or its biosynthesis, but these are not as effective against PcP as they are against other fungal infections. This can now be explained in part by the identification of the sterols of P. carinii. The organism lacks ergosterol but contains distinct C28 and C29 delta7 24-alkylsterols. Also, 24-methylenelanost-8-en-3beta-ol (C31) and pneumocysterol, (24Z)-ethylidenelanost-8-en-3beta-ol (C32) were recently identified in organisms infecting humans. Together, the delta7 24-alkylsterols and pneumocysterol are regarded as signature lipids of the pathogen that can be useful for the diagnosis of PcP, since no other lung pathogen is known to contain them. Cholesterol (C27), the dominant sterol component in P. carinii, is probably totally scavenged from the host. De novo synthesis of sterols has been demonstrated by the presence of lovastatin-sensitive 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase activity, the incorporation of radiolabeled mevalonate and squalene into P. carinii sterols, and the reduction in cellular ATP in cells treated with inhibitors of enzymes in sterol biosynthesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10785846
The evidence that lipid disorders in patients following renal transplantation play a major role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and chronic renal allograft rejection is circumstantial. The absolute rate of clinical vascular disease and cardiovascular complications in transplant patients, the high prevalence of an atherogenic lipid profile and the evidence from the large HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) regression trials in the general population suggest that lipid lowering treatment is necessary in most patients after renal transplantation. Furthermore, animal models and observational studies in patients have found correlations between plasma lipid levels and both acute and chronic rejection. Animal transplant models and clinical trials in heart transplant patients also suggest that statin treatment decrease the incidence of chronic rejection in a manner that may also be independent of lipid lowering. Although the mechanisms behind this protective effect remains unclear, statins may be the first agents to be effective in preventing chronic rejection and in reducing the rate of cardiovascular complication in renal transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10787185
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10792204
The objective was to explore differences in lipid-lowering drug (LLD) prescribing in Italy and Denmark.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10792556
To evaluate the effects of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on lipids and lipoproteins in postmenopausal women with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10795665
We performed an intraindividual comparison of the effect on the coagulation system of two selective apheresis procedures: Direct Adsorption of Lipoproteins (DALI) and Heparin-induced Lipoprotein Fibrinogen Precipitation (HELP). Six patients suffering from heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia have been treated with 2 sessions of each procedure. Anticoagulation was carried out according to usual recommendations. Blood samples were taken before, immediately after and on the second day after the sessions. We assessed global coagulation tests (prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time), fibrinogen, prothrombin fragment F 1 + 2 and a variety of factors (Factors II, V, VII, XIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIIa; von Willebrand Factor; collagen-binding activity, prekallikrein, high-molecular weight kininogen) and antagonists (antithrombin III, protein S activity, free protein S). In fact, all parameters measured have been influenced by the apheresis treatment. Fibrinogen is lowered more by HELP which also has a more definite impact on factors belonging to the prothrombin complex (II, VII, X). In contrast, the major effects of the DALI system have been seen on the intrinsic pathway of the coagulation system (IX, XI, prekallikrein, high-molecular-weight kininogen). With both systems, no increases in activated Factor XII or in prothrombin fragment F 1 + 2 have been observed. These data provide a solid basis for individual adaptations of anticoagulant doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10796009
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10797611
Although the efficacy of fluvastatin (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor) in the treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia is well documented, a wide interindividual variation treatment response has been observed. We have studied the possible role of the AvaII (exon 13), HincII (exon 12), and PvuII (intron 15) polymorphisms at the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene on lipid-lowering response in 55 patients (36 to 70 years old) with primary hypercholesterolemia treated with fluvastatin for 16 weeks. LDLR genotypes were determined by PCR-RFLP. The results indicate that the AvaII and PvuII polymorphisms influence the cholesterol-lowering response of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor Fluvastatin. Patients carrying A+A+ (AvaII) or P1P1 (PvuII) homozygous genotypes presented lower reduction in total cholesterol, LDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels after 16 weeks of treatment with fluvastatin, when compared to other genotypes (P<0.05). Our data also support the previous assumption that the AvaII, HincII, and PvuII polymorphisms of the LDLR gene are associated with variation of serum cholesterol levels. Therefore, the identification of the LDLR genetic profile may provide better prediction of a patient's clinical response to fluvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10799012
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10801994
The speed of the plasma removal of chylomicrons, the lipoproteins that carry dietary lipids absorbed in the intestine, may influence atherogenesis. Thus, the effects of a 30-day pravastatin or placebo treatment on the plasma kinetics of chylomicron-like emulsions were evaluated in 25 patients with coronary artery disease who were not hypertriglyceridemic in a randomized, single-blinded study. Eleven patients (53 +/- 4 years, 10 men) received pravastatin 40 mg/day and 14 received placebo (52 +/- 3 years, 13 men). Emulsions labeled with triolein ((3)H-TO) and cholesteryl oleate ((14)C-CO) to assess lipolysis and clearance of chylomicron and remnants, respectively, were injected intravenously in a bolus after a 12-hour fast. Blood samples were collected during 60 minutes to determine radio isotope decaying curves and fractional catabolic rates. Subjects were studied at baseline and after the treatment period. Compared with placebo (data expressed as mean +/- SEM), pravastatin treatment increased the (14)C-CO fractional catabolic rates (70 +/- 45% vs 18 +/- 10%, p = 0.01), reduced total cholesterol (-21 +/- 3% vs -3 +/- 2% p = 0.0001), low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (-25 +/- 5% vs 4 +/- 6%, p = 0.0001), and apolipoprotein B levels (-22 +/- 3% vs -7 +/- 3% p = 0.01). (3)H-TO fractional catabolic rates, plasma triglycerides, very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol variations did not differ between the groups. The fractional catabolic rate of (14)C-CO was inversely correlated with plasma apolipoprotein B levels (r = -0.7, p = 0.04). This suggests that besides reducing LDL cholesterol, pravastatin also increases chylomicron remnant clearance, with possible antiatherogenic implications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10806282
Animal research and cross-sectional studies suggest that serum lipid concentrations may influence cognitive function, mood, and behavior, but few clinical trials have studied these effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10809995
To determine the efficacy and safety of a statin-fibrate combination in diabetes patients. DESIGN.: An open 21-month trial in which each patient first received the single drug for 6 months and then a combination of the two for 1 year.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10811520
Cholesterol lowering in patients with above-average cholesterol levels has been shown to reduce the progression of atherosclerosis. We assess the effects of lipid lowering therapy on the progression of early, preintrusive carotid arterial atherosclerosis in high risk patients with familial hyperlipidaemia free of symptomatic cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10812143
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10813375
Hypercholesterolemia is a major risk factor initiating and accelerating atherosclerosis and leading to severe stages of coronary artery disease (CAD) with a high risk of cardiovascular events. We investigated the impact of lipid lowering in patients with hypercholesterolemia and evident CAD on clinically relevant parameters like myocardial perfusion. Myocardial imaging was performed with thallium-201 single photon-emission computed tomography at rest and after maximal bicycle exercise in 22 patients after a 4-week lead-in period, and after 12 and 24 weeks of therapy with fluvastatin. Perfusion defects occurred in all patients, indicating stress-induced myocardial ischemia. After 12 weeks of therapy, the perfusion of the ischemic segments increased by 26% (277+/-99 to 349+/-96 cpm; p < 0.001), whereas the value of the normal segments was augmented only by 4% (478+/-44 to 497+/-28 cpm; p < 0.05). The results slightly improved further after 24 weeks. Moreover, a subgroup analysis elucidated a more pronounced effect in patients without lipid-lowering premedication. This nonpretreated group (n = 11) revealed an improvement of ischemic segments at stress by 42% at week 24. In contrast, pretreated patients had an increase of only 18% (between groups, p < 0.05), indicating a carryover effect of premedication. In conclusion, short-term therapy with fluvastatin acts beneficially on impaired vascular function in hypercholesterolemic patients with CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10817086
The prevalence of coronary heart disease (CHD) is markedly increased in diabetic patients compared with non-diabetic individuals, and its prognosis is less good. Serum total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations have been shown to be powerful predictors of CHD morbidity and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes. The available data suggest that the target cholesterol concentration in patients with diabetes should be similar to that in non-diabetic individuals with a previous myocardial infarction. This led us to investigate the efficacy, tolerability and safety of a new, highly potent statin, cerivastatin, in diabetic hyperlipidaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10819700
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy has proven efficacy in reducing the rate of coronary and cerebrovascular events in patients 75 years of age or younger with a history of myocardial infarction. However, in patients older than 75 years of age, the efficacy and potential cost-effectiveness of statins are unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10822898
Lipid-lowering therapy with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzymeA (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors reduces the incidence of atherosclerosis-related cardiovascular events. Adhesion molecules, regulating interactions between vascular and circulating cells, may play a central role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and related complications. In the present report we examined the impact of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor fluvastatin on plasma levels of P-selectin and ICAM-1.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10823314
Because of numerous false-negative results, photopatch testing is seldom relevant in systemic drug-induced photosensitivity. These false-negative photopatch test results can be attributed to the inability of the drug to penetrate into the epidermis. In order to enhance the penetration of the tested drug into the epidermis, some authors proposed to breach the cutaneous barrier. We performed a prospective study comparing photopatch and photoscratch testing. Fifteen patients presenting with a systemic drug-induced photosensitivity, proved by a favourable outcome after discontinuing the drug, were tested. For each drug, photopatch and photoscratch tests were performed. Two-thirds of the patients had negative photopatch and photoscratch tests with the suspected drugs. Photopatch and photoscratch tests were positive and relevant, respectively, in 3 and 4 patients. Photoscratch tests induced more false-positive results due to irritation confirmed on control subjects. Our study proves that photoscratch tests do not change the sensitivity of phototesting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10824361
There is little evidence to show that strict dietary modification alone confers any significant impact on cardiac events in primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. Given the efficacy of the statins, the need for strict dietary modification in patients on statin therapy has been questioned. This study was performed to assess 1) the added benefit on serum lipid levels of a strict low-fat dietary regimen in patients with hypercholesterolaemia already treated with simvastatin; 2) the efficacy of simvastatin on the lipid profile of our sample Asian population; and 3) the tolerability and side-effect profile of simvastatin. This study was a prospective evaluation of 60 patients with hypercholesterolaemia treated with simvastatin who were subjected to either a normal diet or a dietitian guided low-fat diet. Assessment of the effects on serum lipid levels, side-effects, biochemical and haematological markers were performed. After 24 weeks of treatment, a strict dietitian guided low-fat diet conferred no additional benefit over and above what was achieved by simvastatin alone. Furthermore, a higher dose of simvastatin was needed in the dietitian guided diet group to achieve the target LDL-cholesterol level. Simvastatin resulted in a significant positive alteration of lipid profiles in all patients. The drug was well tolerated, with no significant change in either haematological or biochemical indices. Simvastatin is a highly effective cholesterol-lowering drug with a beneficial effect on the entire lipid spectrum in a cross-section of Asian patients, and is well tolerated. A dietitian guided dietary approach confers no additional advantage once statin therapy has been initiated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10824369
Platelet activation and aggregation play an important and essential role in the formation of intracoronary thrombus in acute coronary syndromes (ACS). ACS still carries unacceptably high rates of morbidity and mortality despite intensive antianginal therapy and the wide use of aspirin and heparin. Two glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors are now licensed for concomitant use with heparin and aspirin in ACS. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors block the final step for platelet aggregation and fibrinogen binding, thus preventing thrombus formation. Tirofiban is a potent, synthetic, non-peptide and specific glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitor. In three major international trials involving over 7200 patients (PRISM, PRISM-PLUS and RESTORE), tirofiban was shown to be well tolerated and to reduce the risk of ischaemic complications in patients with unstable angina, non-Q-wave myocardial infarction and high-risk patients undergoing revascularisation when used in combination with aspirin and heparin. These and ongoing studies are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10826894
Despite potent antiretroviral activity, the HIV-1 protease inhibitors have recently been associated with abnormal serum lipoprotein concentrations. The purpose of this review is to describe serum lipid abnormalities related to protease inhibitor use. A MEDLINE search up to June 1, 1999, and abstracts from recent scientific meetings were primary data sources. Lipid disturbances in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitors generally consist of elevated triglycerides and total cholesterol levels; HDL cholesterol is often reduced. The pathophysiological mechanism by which the protease inhibitors induce these lipid abnormalities has been hypothesized, but is unknown. Cases of pancreatitis and coronary heart disease have been described in hyperlipidemic patients receiving protease inhibitors. Treatment of protease inhibitor-related hyperlipidemia is unknown. Exchanging the offending protease inhibitor for nevirapine may be helpful in certain patients. Atorvastatin in combination with gemfibrozil has been used with limited success in a small number of individuals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10829251
Atherosclerosis has many features of a chronic inflammatory disease. Atherosclerotic lesions contain inflammatory cells like activated T-lymphocytes and macrophages. Systemic markers of inflammation such as white blood cells, C-reactive protein, serum amyloid A, interleukin 6 and soluble adhesion molecules are predictive of future cardiovascular events, even after adjustment for the contribution of established cardiovascular risk factors. Atherogenic lipoprotein particles, in particular modified low-density lipoproteins (LDL), elicit pro-inflammatory responses of cellular elements of the vessel wall, including endothelial dysfunction and activation of monocyte-derived macrophages. Treatment, with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors has proven the most successful strategy to reduce the concentration of LDL in the circulatory system. These compounds lower LDL cholesterol by inhibiting the mevalonate pathway in the liver, which in turn depletes the regulatory pool of cholesterol and enhances the activity of LDL receptors. Five prospective clinical trials have convincingly demonstrated that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors can effectively lower the incidence of cardiovascular events in primary and secondary prevention. Post hoc analyses of these trials suggest that the clinical benefit brought about by HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may not entirely be due to their effect on the levels of circulating lipoproteins. In-vitro observations of anti-inflammatory actions of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on vascular cells have been suggested to explain effects beyond lipid-lowering. It is, however, not clear whether these findings are relevant to the in-vivo situation. Further investigation is now necessary in order to determine the relative significance of cholesterol lowering and of ancillary effects to the overall clinical benefit of statin treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10831029
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10843815
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10846948
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (lovastatin, simvastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin) constitute a potent class of cholesterol-lowering agents, which are increasingly being used these days for primary and secondary prevention of atherosclerotic heart disease. Despite having good overall safety and efficacy profiles, these medications can still cause significant adverse effects including transient elevation of hepatic transaminases, myopathy, and rhabdomyolysis. Preclinical studies have demonstrated a potential of neoplasia in rats. However in clinical trials HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have not been found to be neoplastic in humans. The dosage used in humans is also significantly lower and therefore it is expected to have a good safety margin. But this may not be entirely true considering the mechanism of neoplastic transformation, which is thought to be different in humans as compared to other species. We report a patient, who developed follicular adenoma with prominent Hurthle cell changes after being on simvastatin for three months but not during one year of pravastatin therapy. In elderly female patients with hyperlipidemia requiring pharmacologic treatment, especially those with a prior history of multinodular goiter, one should consider using an agent which has not been shown to cause thyroid tumors even in animal models. Patients should continue to be followed with frequent periodic thyroid palpation in addition to the usual biochemical monitoring required while on these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10849014
Early in the process of atherosclerosis, changes in vessel wall stiffness and thickness may occur. The present study evaluates the effect of cholesterol reduction on artery wall stiffness and intima media thickness in patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10849941
Despite the availability of various lipid lowering drugs, the treatment of hyperlipidemia, one of the most important risk factors for morbidity and mortality after organ transplantation, remains a therapeutic challenge. We investigated the safety and efficacy of a new HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, atorvastatin, in renal transplant patients whose serum lipids were insufficiently controlled by diet and treatment with other lipid lowering drugs. Twenty-four patients (14 males/10 females; mean age 51.2 +/- 2.3 years) were converted to low dose atorvastatin (10 mg/day) at a mean of 67.7 +/- 8.6 months after renal transplantation and prospectively followed for 3 months after initiation of the study drug. HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol, triglycerides, serum creatinine and CPK levels were evaluated pre (-3, -1, 0 months) and post conversion (+1, +3 months). In the eighteen patients who completed the study, low dose atorvastatin therapy led to a significant reduction in total cholesterol (304.6 +/- 13.2 vs. 247.6 +/- 12.0 mg/dl; p = 0.007) and LDL cholesterol (191.9 +/- 9.0 vs. 141.8 +/- 14.7 mg/dl; p < 0.0001) and a modest reduction in serum triglyceride levels at three months after conversion. We conclude that low dose atorvastatin (10 mg/day) can be successfully used and appears to be safe in the treatment of posttransplant hyperlipidemia. Its long-term effects on patient morbidity and mortality as well as graft survival should be investigated in larger and more prolonged prospective trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10852435
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10852642
Insulin deficiency and hyperglycaemia in type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus produce lipid abnormalities, which can be corrected by appropriate insulin therapy. Diabetic nephropathy, which is the main risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) in type 1 diabetes, causes pro-atherosclerotic changes in lipid metabolism. Detection and treatment of elevated cholesterol levels is likely to be of benefit in these patients. Type 2 (noninsulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus is associated with abnormal lipid metabolism, even when glycaemic control is good and nephropathy absent. Elevated triglyceride levels, reduced high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and a preponderance of small, dense low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles are the key abnormalities that constitute diabetic dyslipidaemia. The prevalence of hypercholesterolaemia is the same as for the nondiabetic population, but the relative risk of CHD is greatly increased at every level of cholesterol. Based on effectiveness, tolerability and clinical trial results, treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors to lower LDL cholesterol is recommended as primary therapy. These agents are also moderately effective at reducing triglyceride and increasing HDL cholesterol levels. If hypertriglyceridaemia predominates, treatment with fibric acid derivatives is appropriate, although there is currently only limited clinical trial evidence that the risk of CHD will be reduced. In type 1 diabetes, but particularly in type 2 diabetes, lipid disorders are likely to contribute significantly to the increased risk of macrovascular complications. especially CHD. Management of the disordered lipid metabolism should be given a high priority in the clinical care of all patients with diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10852644
The randomised clinical trial data, which supports preventing coronary heart disease (CHD) events by lowering low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, is substantial, consistent and highly significant. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), which are the preferred medications for lowering LDL-C levels, are well tolerated, with greater efficacy than other lipid-altering medications. In 1993, the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) guidelines recommended LDL-C target levels to be achieved with therapy in high-risk individuals. In particular, the LDL-C goal of therapy in patients with CHD was < or = 100 mg/dl (2.6 mmol/L), with no specific guidance as to the lower limit or whether additional clinical benefit could be expected. Because little clinical trial data existed at that time to offer support, and because some epidemiological data raised concern about the potential detriments associated with very low total cholesterol and LDL-C levels, the NCEP Adult Treatment Panel remained appropriately vague on the 'how low should you go' question. In the last few years, several additional clinical trials have provided sufficient efficacy and safety data to re-examine that question. Analyses of on-treatment LDL-C levels and subsequent CHD events from three landmark trials with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors suggest that progressively lower LDL-C levels are associated with lower CHD events in a curvilinear fashion. The Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (Post-CABG) trial and Atorvastatin Versus Revascularisation Trial (AVERT) examined a more intensive versus less intensive drug regimen for LDL-C reduction, and concluded that the more aggressively treated patients had better angiographic and end-point outcomes. Most importantly, there did not appear to be any change in noncardiovascular end-points associated with lower LDL-C levels. In several ongoing clinical trials, patients with CHD have been randomised to receive HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors with targets for LDL-C levels of 100 mg/dl versus 75 mg/dl (1.94 mmol/L). These trials have sufficient patient numbers and power to definitely determine if reducing LDL-C levels to approximately 75 mg/dl can provide an acceptable benefit-to-risk-ratio.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10852999
The antiplatelet drug clopidogrel is a new thienopyridine derivative whose mechanism of action and chemical structure are similar to those of ticlopidine. The estimated incidence of ticlopidine-associated thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is 1 per 1600 to 5000 patients treated, whereas no clopidogrel-associated cases were observed among 20,000 closely monitored patients treated in phase 3 clinical trials and cohort studies. Because of the association between ticlopidine use and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and other adverse effects, clopidogrel has largely replaced ticlopidine in clinical practice. More than 3 million patients have received clopidogrel. We report the clinical and laboratory findings in 11 patients in whom thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura developed during or soon after treatment with clopidogrel.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10853881
The influence of impaired renal function on the pharmacokinetics of single and multiple doses of cerivastatin was evaluated in this nonrandomized, non-blinded, 7-day, multiple-dose study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10856525
We investigated the influence of lovastatin, simvastatin and pravastatin on proliferation and viability of vascular smooth muscle cells (SMC) in vitro and studied the effects of lovastatin on a mouse SMC line transgenic for a temperature-sensitive mutant of SV40 large T antigen (TAg), known to inhibit the function of p53 and pRb family members. We found that lovastatin and simvastatin inhibited cell proliferation by provoking G0/G1 phase arrest with concomitant depression of the proliferation antigen Ki-67/MIB-1. Lovastatin at high concentrations of 20 micromol/l caused cell death in the presence of serum but not under serum starved conditions, which was verified on the basis of increased DNA strand breaks, decreased DNA content and morphological alterations seen by electron microscopy. Cell death was also found for simvastatin, whereas pravastatin did not exhibit antiproliferative or cytotoxic effects. Mouse SMC transgenic for TAg did not show any impaired sensitivity to the antiproliferative and cell death inducing effect of lovastatin, but both effects could be antagonized by the supplementation of mevalonate. The data indicate that antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects of lovastatin are caused by the using up of products of mevalonate metabolism and do not require the presence of p53 or pRb.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10856535
Patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HoFH) have markedly elevated low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels that are refractory to standard doses of lipid-lowering drug therapy. In the present study we evaluated the effect of atorvastatin on steady state concentrations of plasma lipids and mevalonic acid (MVA), as well as on 24-h urinary excretion of MVA in patients with well characterized HoFH. Thirty-five HoFH patients (18 males; 17 females) received 40 mg and then 80 mg atorvastatin/day. The dose of atorvastatin was increased further to 120 mg/day in 20 subjects and to 160 mg/day in 13 subjects who had not achieved LDL cholesterol goal, or in whom the dose of atorvastatin had not exceeded 2.5 mg/kg body wt per day. LDL cholesterol levels were reduced by 17% at the 40 mg/day and by 28% at the 80 mg/day dosage (P<0.01). Reduction in LDL cholesterol in the five receptor negative patients was similar to that achieved in the 30 patients with residual LDL receptor activity. Plasma MVA and 24-h urinary excretion of MVA, as markers of in vivo cholesterol synthesis, were elevated at baseline and decreased markedly with treatment. Urinary MVA excretion decreased by 57% at the 40 mg/day dose and by 63% at the 80 mg/day dosage (P<0. 01). There was a correlation between reduction in LDL cholesterol and reduction in urinary MVA excretion; those patients with the highest basal levels of MVA excretion and thus the highest rates of cholesterol synthesis having the greatest reduction in LDL cholesterol (r=0.38; P=0.02). Increasing the dose of atorvastatin to 120 and 160 mg/day did not result in any further reduction in LDL cholesterol or urinary MVA excretion suggesting a plateau effect with no further inhibition of cholesterol synthesis at doses of atorvastatin greater than 80 mg/day.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10856536
Preliminary data suggest that fluvastatin may be safely combined with fibrates. The Fluvastatin Alone and in Combination Treatment Study examined the effects on plasma lipids and safety of a combination of fluvastatin and bezafibrate in patients with coronary artery disease and mixed hyperlipidaemia. A total of 333 patients were randomly allocated in this multicentre double-blind trial to receive 40 mg fluvastatin alone (n=80), 400 mg bezafibrate (n=86), 20 mg fluvastatin+400 mg bezafibrate (n=85) or 40 mg fluvastatin+400 mg bezafibrate (n=82) for 24 weeks. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol decreased >20% in all fluvastatin-containing regimens, with significantly greater decreases compared with bezafibrate alone (P<0.001). Bezafibrate alone and fluvastatin+bezafibrate combinations resulted in greater increases in high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol and decreases in triglycerides compared with fluvastatin alone (P<0.001). Fluvastatin (40 mg)+bezafibrate was the most effective for all lipid parameters with a decrease from baseline at endpoint in LDL-cholesterol of 24%, a decrease in triglycerides of 38% and an increase in HDL-cholesterol of 22%. All treatments were well tolerated with no increase in adverse events for combination therapy versus monotherapy, or between combination regimens. No clinically relevant liver (aspartate aminotransferase [ASAT] or alanine aminotransferase [ALAT]) greater than three times the upper limit of normal) or muscular (creatine phosphokinase (CPK) greater than four times the upper limit of normal) laboratory abnormalities were reported. This large study shows 40 mg fluvastatin in combination with 400 mg bezafibrate to be highly effective and superior to either drug given as monotherapy in mixed hyperlipidaemia, and to be safe and well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10857949
To assess the prevalence of renal artery stenosis (RAS) in subjects with type 2 diabetes and coexistent hypertension by using magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the renal arteries, to assess clinical and biochemical predictors of RAS, and to assess the hemodynamic significance of RAS, by using the captopril test (a measure of the response of plasma renin activity to a single oral dose of captopril).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10857969
To evaluate whether the homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) is a reliable surrogate measure of in vivo insulin sensitivity in humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10860137
To review new pharmacologic agents approved for use in the management of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10862572
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10862587
To assess the relation between exercise intensity and oxygen uptake during graded exercise in paediatric patients who underwent surgical repair of congenital heart disease, and to compare it with conventional measures of aerobic exercise function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10863943
Evaluation of the therapy of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) is hampered by its rarity and by the striking and unpredictable variation in phenotypic expression. We present two approaches that may facilitate therapy evaluation. (1) We have analysed data on 377 X-ALD patients who have been followed at the Kennedy Krieger Institute for a mean period of 38 months and have subdivided them into 18 subgroups on the basis of age and the degree of abnormality in brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as assessed by the Loes score (Am. J. Neuroradrol 1994; 15: 1761). We find that grouping on the basis of age and MRI score provides information that is of significant prognostic value. (2) We present plans for the development of a placebo-controlled multicentre international study that will have sufficient biostatistical power to provide objective evaluation of new therapeutic interventions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10865931
Almost 13 million American adults require drug therapy to meet the low-density lipoprotein goals set by the National Cholesterol Education Program. Attempts to achieve these goals through diet and exercise are often unsuccessful. Major studies in recent years have demonstrated that statins decrease low-density lipoprotein levels, coronary events and overall mortality. Statins are the most commonly prescribed lipid-lowering agents because they are effective, well tolerated and easy to administer. Niacin has beneficial effects on all of the main lipid components, and new extended-release tablets have fewer adverse effects. Fibrates remain the most effective agents in lowering triglyceride levels and should be limited to this use. Bile acid sequestrants are seldom prescribed because of their adverse gastrointestinal effects and cumbersome administration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10867084
In this study, we sought to determine the rate of progression of atherosclerosis using coronary calcium scores derived from electron beam tomography (EBT). We studied a variety of disease states (hypertension, high cholesterol, tobacco use, diabetes mellitus) followed for 1 to 6.5 years. We evaluated 299 asymptomatic persons (227 men and 72 women) who underwent 2 consecutive EBT scans at least 12 months apart. The average change in the calcium score (Agatston method) for the entire group was 33.2 +/- 9.2%/year. The treated group (receiving statins) demonstrated an average increase in calcium scores of 15 +/- 8%/year compared with 39 +/- 12%/year for untreated patients (p <0.001). Among the 60 patients on statin monotherapy, 37% had a decrease in the calcium score from baseline to follow-up scan. The relative increase in calcium scores did not vary significantly by gender or risk factors, with the exception of statin-treated hypercholesterolemic subjects. Scores of zero on the initial scan portend a low likelihood of significant calcific deposits on repeat scanning. Only 2 of 81 participants (2%) with scores of zero at baseline had scores >10 on repeat study. In this study, statin therapy induced a 61% reduction in the rate of coronary calcium progression. This study demonstrates that EBT may be a useful tool in assessing efficacy of different interventions to retard progression of atherosclerosis, noninvasively, over relatively short time periods.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10867087
Previous reports indicate that patients who do not develop Q waves after thrombolytic therapy are a different population with a better long-term survival than those who do develop Q waves. However, the use of resources, quality of life, and health status of this population have not been fully evaluated. Using data from the Economics and Quality of Life subset of the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and tPA for Occluded Arteries study, we examined 30-day and 1-year mortality, use of resources, and quality-of-life measures among 1,830 of 3,000 patients with acute myocardial infarction and ST-segment elevation treated with thrombolytic therapy. At hospital discharge, 555 patients (30.2%) had not developed Q waves. These patients had lower mortality than patients with Q waves at 30 days (1.6% vs 4.5%, p <0.01) and at 1 year (4.7% vs 6.8%, p <0.04). Recurrent chest pain and dyspnea were similar at 30 days and 1 year. Patients without Q waves had significantly more angiography and trends toward higher readmission, revascularization, and use of calcium antagonists at 30 days. Angiography, revascularization, readmission, and quality of life were equivalent from 30 days to 1 year, with no sign of late instability. Logistic regression analysis showed an association between in-hospital revascularization and better survival and quality of life at 1 year. Conversely, there was no association between in-hospital use of calcium antagonists and outcome to explain the lower mortality in non-Q-wave patients. The absence of Q waves after thrombolytic therapy is a marker of success, implying better prognosis and equivalent quality of life, use of resources, and health status than for patients with Q-wave acute myocardial infarction and no sign of long-term unstable clinical course.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10867089
Noninvasive detection of restenosis in patients remaining asymptomatic after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) remains a major clinical problem. The value of exercise electrocardiography (ECG) and exercise-redistribution thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in detecting restenosis in such patients remains uncertain. Discordances between these tests and coronary angiography is a common situation. We studied 179 consecutive patients remaining asymptomatic after successful PTCA (208 vessels), who underwent 6 +/- 2 months of exercise ECG, SPECT, and coronary angiography. We sought to assess the diagnostic value of the noninvasive tests compared with coronary angiography, and identify the determinants of discordances between the tests. Restenosis (diameter stenosis >50%) was detected in 39% of patients and in 37% of vessels. The overall sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for exercise ECG and SPECT in detecting restenosis in individual vessels were, respectively, 53% versus 63% (p = 0.06), 59% versus 77% (p = 0.0001), and 57% versus 72% (p = 0. 0001). On multivariate analysis, positive exercise ECG was associated with higher heart rate response (p = 0.02), incomplete revascularization (p = 0.004), and angiographic restenosis (p = 0. 03), whereas positive SPECT was associated with incomplete revascularization (p = 0.02), infarct-related artery PTCA (p = 0.01), and angiographic restenosis (p = 0.0001). Accuracies of the 2 tests were not significantly different in patients with incomplete revascularization or PTCA of an infarct-related vessel. Overall, SPECT is more accurate than exercise ECG in detecting asymptomatic restenosis. Nevertheless, incomplete revascularization and PTCA of an infarct-related artery could cause reversible perfusion defects regardless of restenosis, reducing the diagnostic value of SPECT in such patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10867091
This study compares the effect of plant stanol ester spread with a placebo spread on cholesterol in patients taking statin therapy, but who still had elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial, with 67 women and 100 men with LDL cholesterol >/=130 mg/dl and triglycerides </=350 mg/dl who had been taking a stable dose of a statin drug for at least 90 days before the start of the study. For 8 weeks, participants consumed 3 servings/day of the plant stanol ester spread that provided 5.1 g/day of plant stanol ester or a placebo. The addition of plant stanol ester spread significantly reduced total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol at 2, 4, and 8 weeks when compared with placebo spread. Plant stanol ester spread reduced total cholesterol at 8 weeks by 12% compared with a placebo reduction of 5% (-7% difference; p <0.0001). Plant stanol ester spread reduced LDL cholesterol at 8 weeks by 17% compared with a 7% reduction in the placebo group (-10% difference, p <0.0001). The absolute reduction in LDL cholesterol at 8 weeks was 24 and 10 mg/dl in the stanol ester and placebo groups, respectively. The plant stanol ester spread group also had greater reductions in both serum total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol than the placebo group at 2 and 4 weeks (p <0.001 for all comparisons). Both spreads were well tolerated by study participants, and no significant adverse events were noted. Consumption of spread that provided 5.1 g/day of plant stanol esters effectively reduced elevated total and LDL cholesterol levels in participants on a stable regimen of a statin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10867097
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10877038
The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors specifically inhibit HMG-CoA reductase in the liver, thereby inhibiting the biosynthesis of cholesterol. These drugs significantly reduce plasma cholesterol level and long term treatment reduces morbidity and mortality associated with coronary heart disease. The tolerability of these drugs during long term administration is an important issue. Adverse reactions involving skeletal muscle are not uncommon, and sometimes serious adverse reactions involving skeletal muscle such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis may occur, requiring discontinuation of the drug. Occasionally, arthralgia, alone or in association with myalgia, has been reported. In this article we review scientific data provided via Medline, adverse drug reaction case reports from the Swedish Drug Information System (SWEDIS) and the World Health Organization's International Drug Information System (INTDIS) database, focusing on HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal system events. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 is the main isoenzyme involved in the metabolic transformation of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Individuals with both low hepatic and low gastrointestinal tract levels of CYP3A4 expression may be at in increased risk of myotoxicity due to potentially higher HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor plasma concentrations. The reported incidence of myotoxic reactions in patients treated with this drug class varies from 1 to 7% and varies between different agents. The risk of these serious adverse reactions is dose-dependent and may increase when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are prescribed concomitantly with drugs that inhibit their metabolism, such as itraconazole, cyclosporin, erythromycin and nefazodone. Electrolyte disturbances, infections, major trauma, hypoxia as well as drugs of abuse may increase the risk of myotoxicity. It is important that the potentially serious adverse reactions are recognised and correctly diagnosed so that the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor may at once be withdrawn to prevent further muscular damage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10879415
Preventive therapies such as cholesterol reduction significantly reduce the risk of acute coronary events. Diagnostic tools that identify asymptomatic coronary atherosclerosis would permit initiation of aggressive preventive therapies at an earlier stage of coronary disease. Histologic and angiographic data demonstrate that coronary calcium has a very high sensitivity for the presence of coronary plaque. Therefore, coronary calcification can be regarded as a marker for coronary atherosclerosis. Coronary calcium scanning has been suggested as a tool for identification of a high-risk asymptomatic patient group. It can be utilized to guide the aggressiveness of risk factor modification and therapeutic preventive interventions toward those at higher risk for future events. Based on the available data, we review the clinical use of coronary calcium scanning in preventive cardiology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10879416
Results of the Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study (AFCAPS/TexCAPS) demonstrated that treatment with lovastatin, in addition to modifications of diet and lifestyle, reduced the rate of first acute major coronary events compared with placebo in a cohort that included participants with average to mildly elevated total levels of cholesterol, and below average levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, women, and elderly subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10880660
Some degree of depression affects at least 30% of hospitalized patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), and is associated with increased risks of mortality and continuing depression over at least the first year following hospital discharge. Despite its consequences for prognosis and quality of life, depression is underrecognized and undertreated in cardiac patients. The diagnosis of depression is complicated in patients with medical illness. Their symptoms can reflect physical as well as psychological complaints. Many CAD patients resist the idea of additional medications, and drug interactions can be problematic for those willing to accept antidepressant treatment. Finally, depression tends to recur. Its successful treatment requires a long-term commitment from both physician and patient. This article examines the special challenges involved in diagnosing depression in patients with CAD, outlines available psychotherapeutic and pharmacological treatments, and considers the issues involved in deciding which patients to treat, with what approach, and for how long.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10881890
Inhibitors of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (statins) increase new bone formation in rodents and in human cells in vitro. Statin use is associated with increased bone mineral density of the femoral neck. We undertook a population-based case-control study at six health-maintenance organisations in the USA to investigate further the relation between statin use and fracture risk among older women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10881898
Experimental evidence suggests that the cholesterol-lowering drugs statins increase bone formation. We report a significant increase of bone-mineral density associated with taking statins in postmenopausal women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10882353
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10889125
The Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Trial, designed to compare the effects of 2 lipid-lowering regimens and low-dose anticoagulation versus placebo on progression of atherosclerosis in saphenous vein grafts of patients who had had CABG surgery, demonstrated that aggressive lowering of LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) levels to <100 mg/dL compared with a moderate reduction to 132 to 136 mg/dL decreased the progression of atherosclerosis in grafts. Low-dose anticoagulation did not significantly affect progression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10890264
A review of the cost-effectiveness literature indicated that the hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A-reductase inhibitor fluvastatin is more cost-effective for achieving minor-to-moderate reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels than 3 other statins: lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin. The main goal of this study was to verify the applicability of these conclusions to Spanish health care costs and patterns of resource consumption related to the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. A stochastic simulation model was used to predict both the costs and effects of treating high-risk hypercholesterolemic patients with fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, or simvastatin. Epidemiologic data were used to find a suitable theoretic probability distribution model for baseline LDL-C values in high-risk hypercholesterolemic patients. The model was then used to generate 10,000 random observations of baseline LDL-C values; the corresponding LDL-C values after a 2-year treatment period were predicted as a function of the baseline value and the percentage reduction expected with a particular statin and dose, according to the results obtained in 2 meta-analyses. The probability of treatment discontinuation was also taken into account using estimates obtained in usual practice. The effects of treatment were expressed as the rate of success in achieving the goal level of LDL-C, as defined in the current Spanish recommendations for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. The average costs of treatment were computed from both the social and public-financing perspectives, including the cost of lipid-lowering drugs, physician visits, laboratory tests, and days off work, as appropriate. The occurrence of nonscheduled visits and workdays lost because of side effects were taken into account to compute indirect costs relevant to the social perspective. The potential costs of treating side effects were ignored. A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to compare the cost-effectiveness ratios obtained with each of the 4 statins considered in this study. Model-based predictions of the effects, total costs, and cost-effectiveness ratios were made. Cost-effectiveness ratios were interpreted as the cost per patient meeting the goal of therapy, according to current Spanish recommendations. The data showed that fluvastatin had the lowest cost-effectiveness ratios when LDL-C levels required reduction to < or =25% of baseline levels. In this situation, fluvastatin was more cost-effective than lovastatin, pravastatin, or simvastatin from public-financing and social perspectives.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10890267
Although randomized clinical trials have convincingly shown the efficacy of antihyperlipidemic drugs, both discontinuation of antihyperlipidemic drugs and failure to achieve goal lipid levels would be expected to attenuate the effect of these drugs on reducing the rates of hospitalization for coronary events. This study compares the rates of hospitalization and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels during and after discontinuation of antihyperlipidemic drug therapy. A retrospective cohort study was conducted among 2369 patients at 2 health maintenance organizations (HMOs) during the period 1988 to 1994. Rates of coronary heart disease (CHD)-related hospitalization and non-CHD-related hospitalization and the LDL-C levels between 14 and 180 days after the initiation or discontinuation of drug therapy were compared for periods of antihyperlipidemic drug use and nonuse. The rate ratio for CHD hospitalization during periods of antihyperlipidemic drug use compared with periods of nonuse was 1.02 (95% CI, 0.74 to 1.40), excluding the first 6 months after initiation or discontinuation and controlling for patient sex, age, history of CHD, hypertension, diabetes, and HMO site. By contrast, the adjusted rate ratio was 0.70 (95% CI, 0.61 to 0.80) for non-CHD hospitalization. The percentage of patients with a history of CHD who achieved LDL-C levels <130 mg/dL was 27% < or =6 months after initiation of antihyperlipidemic drug therapy compared with 18% during gaps in drug therapy (P = 0.04). This study failed to demonstrate the effectiveness of lipid-lowering therapy in reducing CHD hospitalizations in community settings, apparently because most recipients either discontinued therapy or failed to achieve the desired LDL-C reduction while receiving therapy. These results indicate the need for interventions to improve patient compliance and management of lipid disorders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10898118
This pivotal, multicentre, double-blind, parallel-group study evaluated the efficacy and safety of cerivastatin 0.8 mg. Patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia were randomized, after 10 weeks' dietary stabilization on an American Heart Association (AHA) Step I diet, to treatment with cerivastatin 0.8 mg (n = 776), cerivastatin 0.4 mg (n = 195) or placebo (n = 199) once daily for 8 weeks. Cerivastatin 0.8 mg reduced mean low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) by 41.8% compared with cerivastatin 0.4 mg (-35.6%, P < 0.0001) or placebo. In 90% of patients receiving cerivastatin 0.8 mg LDL-C was reduced by 23.9 -58.4% (6th - 95th percentile). Overall attainment of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) goal was achieved by 84% of patients receiving cerivastatin 0.8 mg and by 59% of those with coronary heart disease (CHD). In the sub-population meeting the NCEP criteria for pharmacological therapy for LDL-C reduction, 74.6% of patients, including the 59% with CHD, reached the goal with cerivastatin 0.8 mg. Cerivastatin 0.8 mg also reduced mean total cholesterol by 29.9%, apolipoprotein B by 33.2% and median triglycerides by 22.9% (all P < 0.0001). Mean high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) and apolipoprotein A1 were elevated 8.7% (P < 0.0001) and 4.5% (P < 0.0001), respectively, by cerivastatin 0.8 mg. Reductions of triglyceride and elevation in HDL-C were dependent upon triglyceride baseline levels; in patients having baseline triglyceride levels 250 - 400 mg/dl, cerivastatin 0.8 mg reduced median triglycerides by 29.5% and elevated HDL-C by 13.2%. Cerivastatin 0.8 mg was well tolerated. The most commonly reported adverse events included headache, pharyngitis and rhinitis (4 - 6%). Symptomatic creatine kinase elevations > 10 times upper limit of normal occurred in 0%, 1% and 0.9% of patients receiving placebo, cerivastatin 0.4 mg or cerivastatin 0.8 mg, respectively. Cerivastatin 0.8 mg is an effective and safe treatment for patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia who need aggressive LDL-C lowering in order to achieve NCEP-recommended levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10901509
To assess the effect of simvastatin, hormone replacement therapy and their combination on soluble cell adhesion molecules and plasma lipids, in hypercholesterolaemic post-menopausal women with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10904919
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10907971
We conducted a post hoc pharmacoeconomic analysis of a multicenter, open-label, randomized, parallel-group, 8-week efficacy-safety comparison of five HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors-atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin. The 534 patients requiring cholesterol-lowering therapy took the drugs for 8 weeks with 15 different regimens. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) was measured after 6 weeks of diet (baseline) and after 8 weeks of treatment with a study drug. At dosages of 10, 20, and 40 mg/day, atorvastatin was associated with significantly greater reductions in LDL than equivalent dosages of the other agents. Cost-effectiveness calculated as the annual acquisition cost/percentage LDL reduction was greatest with atorvastatin 10 mg ($17.96), fluvastatin 40 mg ($19.83), atorvastatin 20 mg ($22.85), and atorvastatin 40 mg ($24.96). All other dosages were above $25.00/year/percentage LDL reduction. Atorvastatin was the most cost-effective HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. Fluvastatin 40 mg/day also had a favorable cost:effectiveness ratio but lowered LDL only by 23%.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10908244
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10910028
Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis is a treatment option in patients with coronary artery disease and elevated LDL cholesterol concentrations if maximal drug therapy fails to achieve adequate LDL cholesterol reduction. This therapy is more effective when combined with strong lipid-lowering drugs, such as atorvastatin. However, conflicting data have been published concerning the effect of atorvastatin on fibrinogen concentration. Therefore, we investigated the effect of atorvastatin compared to simvastatin on fibrinogen concentration and other hemorheological parameters in patients treated by weekly LDL apheresis. Hemorheological parameters were, studied twice in 9 patients (4 female, 5 male, 54.0+/-8.9 years) with coronary artery disease treated by weekly LDL immunoadsorption, once during concomitant simvastatin therapy (40 mg daily) and once during atorvastatin therapy (40 mg daily). Fibrinogen concentration, plasma and blood viscosity at different shear rates, parameters of red cell aggregation at stasis and shear rate 3/s, and erythrocyte filterability were determined 7 days after the last LDL apheresis after each drug had been given for a minimum for 8 weeks. Fibrinogen concentration did not show any statistically significant difference during therapy with atorvastatin (3.09+/-0.36 g/L) compared to simvastatin (3.13+/-0.77 g/L). Plasma and blood viscosity as well as erythrocyte filterability were also unchanged. The increase in red cell aggregation at stasis during atorvastatin treatment (5.82+/-1.00 U versus 4.89+/-0.48 U during simvastatin; p < 0.05) was inversely correlated with a lower high-density liprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentration (1.17+/-0.21 mmol/L versus 1.31+/-0.30 mmol/L during simvastatin; p < 0.05). LDL cholesterol showed a strong trend to lower concentrations during atorvastatin (4.14+/-0.61 mmol/L versus 4.56+/-0.66 mmol/L during simvastatin; p = 0.07), despite a reduced plasma volume treated (3,547+/-1,239 ml during atorvastatin versus 3,888+/-1,206 mL during simvastatin; p < 0.05). In conclusion, fibrinogen concentration and other hemorheological parameters were unchanged during atorvastatin compared to simvastatin therapy with the exception of a higher red cell aggregation at stasis. Therefore, with respect to hemorheology, we conclude that atorvastatin should not be withheld from hypercholesterolemic patients regularly treated with LDL immunoadsorption.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10910373
Chronic rejection is the most important cause for returning to dialysis after failure of a renal transplant. The term chronic allograft nephropathy refers to the progressive decline of renal function seen in some renal transplant recipients in association with alloantigen-dependent and alloantigen-independent factors. This review examines the role of factors related to allorecognition, injury, nephron dosing, and donor and recipient characteristics in the development of chronic allograft nephropathy. The clinical associations to chronic allograft nephropathy are presented in the context of pathogenetic mechanisms of renal damage and disease progression. As there is no therapy available at this time for established chronic allograft nephropathy, possible areas of intervention for the prevention of chronic rejection are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10912308
The objective of the study was to compare the lipid management of men and women with documented coronary artery disease in 587 patients (433 men and 154 women) undergoing coronary angiography between 1991 and 1995. A fasting total cholesterol (TC) was measured in all patients on the morning of angiography. A postal/telephone follow-up was carried out one year after angiography in a subpopulation of 278 patients (194 men and 84 women) who were not taking lipid-lowering therapy (LLT) or whose TC was > 5.2 mmol/l at the time of angiography. At baseline, mean TC was 5.89 mmol/l (SE 0.06) in the men and 6.47 mmol/l (SE 0.09) in the women (p = < 0.0001). Action or recommendation to institute LLT was taken in 141 (32.7%) men and 62 (40.3%) women (p = 0.09). In the follow-up population, comparing men with women, 74 (38.3%) vs 39 (46.4%) were taking LLT (p = 0.21); 56 (28.9%) vs 26 (31.0%) had not undergone repeat TC testing (p = 0.73); when performed, repeat TC was 5.75 (0.09) mmol/l vs 5.64 (0.16) mmol/l (p = 0.53); mean decrease in TC between baseline and follow-up was 0.86 (0.10) mmol/l vs 1.01 (0.21) mmol/l (p = 0.51). There was no significant gender difference in lipid management either at the time of coronary angiography or subsequent follow-up, although the level of lipid-lowering drug use remained inadequate in both sexes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10912491
To assess risk factors for gallstone recurrence following non-surgical treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10913488
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10913499
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10914753
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10918670
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is prevalent and often related to an unhealthy diet and hyperlipidemia. The diagnosis of hyperlipidemia should be carefully made, using more than one measurement in the manner described. An assessment of risks allows one to decide whom to treat. Patients with CHD should be treated aggressively but it is less clear how aggressive to be with patients without CHD. Diet and exercise recommendations are appropriate for almost all patients. For those for whom the benefit is greater than the potential risks, statins are first-line drug therapy and they appear to have beneficial effects aside from their lipid-lowering properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10919369
Some 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, which are used as hypolipidemic drugs, have been reported to have the potential to reduce the oxidizability of plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) when they are administered in vivo. Their in vivo mechanism is believed to be closely related to their hypolipidemic action based on the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity. We hypothesized that some type of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor has additional mechanism inhibiting LDL oxidation in vivo due not to its hypolipidemic action but to its direct antioxidative effect based on its unique chemical structure. We directly compared in vitro the antioxidative effects of well-known HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (fluvastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin, cerivastatin and atorvastatin) on the hydrogen peroxide-induced oxidative destruction of hemin and LDL. Fluvastatin but not the others showed the inhibitory effect on this system. Its effect was dose-dependent and almost as strong as the natural antioxidants, alpha-tocopherol and ascorbic acid. Further, M2, which is a hydroxylated metabolite of fluvastatin, showed stronger antioxidative activity than did fluvastatin. We suggest that among these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, fluvastatin especially has an ability to retard the LDL oxidation which is based on not only its hypolipidemic action but also its direct antioxidative effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10922421
Several epidemiologic studies have concluded that there is no relation between total cholesterol levels and the risk of stroke. In some studies that classified strokes according to cause, there was an association between increasing cholesterol levels and the risk of ischemic stroke and a possible association between low cholesterol levels and the risk of hemorrhagic stroke. Recent reviews of trials of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors have suggested that these agents may reduce the risk of stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10922429
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) and other randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that cholesterol-lowering treatment with statins improves prognosis in patients with coronary atherosclerosis compared with placebo. The effect of therapy with statins beyond the typical 5 to 6 years' duration of the trials, in particular regarding the risk of cancer, has not been investigated. This study examines the long-term effects of simvastatin for up to 8 years on cause-specific mortality in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). We performed an observational, government registry-based study of mortality in the groups originally randomized to simvastatin or placebo in the 4S over an additional 2-year follow-up period, so that the median total follow-up period was 7.4 years (range 6.9 to 8.3 in surviving patients). Randomization took place at outpatient clinics at 94 clinical centers in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden from 1988 to 1989. Of 4,444 patients with CHD, 2,223 and 2,221 were randomized to treatment with placebo or simvastatin therapy, respectively. Patients received treatment with simvastatin, starting at 20 mg/day, with titration to 40 mg/day at 12 or 24 weeks if total cholesterol was >5.2 mmol/L (200 mg/dl), or placebo. After the double-blind period, most patients in both treatment groups received simvastatin as open-label prescription. Of the 1,967 patients originally treated with placebo and surviving the double-blind period, 97 (4.9%) died during the following 2 years. In the group randomized to simvastatin the corresponding number was 74 of the 2, 039 survivors (3.6%). Adding these deaths to those occurring during the original trial, the total was 353 (15.9%) and 256 (11.5%) deaths in the groups originally randomized to placebo and simvastatin, respectively. The relative risk was 0.70 (95% confidence interval 0. 60 to 0.82, p = 0.00002). The total number of cancer deaths was 68 (3.1%) in the placebo group and 52 (2.3%) in the simvastatin group (relative risk 0.73, 95% confidence interval 0.51 to 0.05, p = 0. 087), and the numbers of noncardiovascular and other deaths were similar in both groups. We therefore conclude that treatment with simvastatin for up to 8 years in patients with CHD is safe and yields continued survival benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10924289
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10924713
Triglycerides and cholesterol are important biological lipids, and their excessive intake in the diet is relevant to the development of two prevalent cardiovascular risk factors, obesity and hypercholesterolemia. Because most lipids are essentially water-insoluble molecules, their transport within and absorption from the aqueous medium of intestinal contents is rather complex. This takes place in a series of orderly and interrelated steps, including emulsification, hydrolysis by specific esterases, micellar transport, mucosal absorption, re-synthesis of parent molecules in enterocytes, and assembly with apolipoproteins and other molecules to form chylomicrons, the secretory product of intestinal cells. Many of these processes, however, are not well characterized at the molecular level. While in health the intestinal absorption of triglycerides is very efficient, the same does not apply to cholesterol absorption. Besides being generally inefficient, cholesterol absorption is highly variable, with a between-subject variability that depends in part on genetic factors and an intra-individual variability, which may be modulated by physiological and dietary conditions. All of the sequential steps in intestinal lipid absorption can be interfered with by dietary components or drugs and thus are potential therapeutic targets for inducing a controlled malabsorption of triglyceride, useful in the treatment of obesity, or for rendering cholesterol absorption even more inefficient in an attempt to lower blood cholesterol levels. Nevertheless, intestinally derived cholesterol available to the liver exerts complex feedback regulation on whole-body cholesterol homeostasis that limits the efficacy of cholesterol absorption inhibitors to lower blood cholesterol. This review focuses first on present knowledge of the physiology of intestinal fat absorption, necessary to understand the ways to manipulate it in order to obtain the desired effects on dietary triglyceride and cholesterol disposition. The second part discusses old, present and future ways, both dietary and pharmacological. of interfering with cholesterol and triglyceride absorption to reduce blood cholesterol and energy acquisition, respectively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10924726
Various LDL-apheresis systems have gained wider clinical acceptance in recent years to treat patients with severe familial hypercholesterolaemia, in particular in patients with coronary artery disease. For each single device data on efficacy have been provided, but up to now no comparative analysis including the novel direct adsorption of lipoproteins from whole blood has been reported. This prospectively designed cross-over comparison of three commercially available LDL-apheresis systems (immunoadsorption, IMAL; dextran sulphate adsorption, DSA; direct adsorption of lipoproteins, DALI) was performed in eight patients with homozygous (n = 3) and heterozygous (n = 5) familial hypercholesterolaemia. Removal of atherogenic lipoproteins was highly effective in all systems, for LDL-cholesterol in particular: DSA: - 84.3 +/- 6.2%; IMAL: -82.1 +/- 8.3%; DALI: -76.6 +/- 7.2% (P < 0.05 as compared DALI versus IMAL and DSA). A reduction in Lp(a) of about 63% was achieved by each device. Loss in HDL-cholesterol was highest with IMAL (-21.3 +/- 4.9%, P < 0.05) as compared to the other two treatment modalities. DSA decreased HDL-cholesterol by - 10.4 +/- 6.1% and the DALI system by -12.7 +/- 5.0%. Remarkable differences were found for the removal of fibrinogen (DSA: -29.8 +/- 14.7%, (P < 0.05 versus DALI/IMAL); IMAL: -21.4 +/- 10.1% (P < 0.05 versus DALI); DALI: -14.8 +/- 8.0%). The shortest duration for treatment was achieved by the DALI system (135 +/- 20 min, P < 0.05 versus IMAL (195 +/- 20 min) and DSA (187 +/- 29 min)). No side effects were recorded in the total of 96 treatments performed during the study. Long-term observations have yet to prove whether these differences in efficacy may be of clinical relevance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10924737
The Carotid Atherosclerosis Italian Ultrasound study (CAIUS), a multicenter, double-blind clinical trial, performed in 305 asymptomatic, moderately hypercholesterolemic patients, clearly demonstrated beneficial effects of pravastatin on the carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) progression. The database of the CAIUS study was examined in order to investigate the presence of a relationship, if any, between the activity of pravastatin on IMT progression rate and its hypocholesterolemic effect. Quantitative B-mode ultrasound imaging was used to quantify the individual mean maximum IMT progression rate in 3 years. In the overall group of patients (placebo and pravastatin) covariance analysis showed that while the variable 'treatment' (0 = placebo, 1 = pravastatin) was significantly related to the reduction of IMT progression (F= 6.6, P = 0.01), the IMT progression did not correlate with the extent of LDL-C lowering (F= 0.00, P = 0.98). To further investigate this issue. the pravastatin treated group was stratified into quartiles of LDL-C reduction. In contrast to what was observed in the placebo group, in which a positive mean IMT progression rate was observed, independent of the extent of LDL-C reduction, no IMT progressionwas observed in any subgroup treated with pravastatin. No significant difference was found among quartiles and no trend could be identified. In conclusion, the effect of pravastatin treatment on carotid IMT progression rate is beneficial; however the CAIUS study demonstrated that lowering LDL-C by itself, does not explain the variability of beneficial changes in IMT.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10925336
Observational studies have demonstrated that triglycerides are an independent risk factor for coronary heart disease. Atherothrombosis may be mediated by uptake and incorporation of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins by macrophages and through an association with small, dense LDL and HDL particles. There are considerable data that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces cardiovascular events. However, the importance of triglyceride lowering remains elusive.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10925339
The rate and degree of LDL cholesterol reduction, in the first 2 weeks of therapy, may relate to the early benefit of hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor therapy. In patients with similar baseline LDL cholesterol levels as in the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE) trial, we report the results of a 2-week placebo-controlled, double-blind investigation of 10 mg/day atorvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10927723
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10927735
During the past 15 years there has been an exponential increase in the number of prescriptions for lipid-lowering drugs. Uncertainties remain about the long-term impact of these medications on cancer, which is particularly bothersome given that the duration of these treatments may extend for several decades.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10929930
The new therapeutic options available to clinicians treating dyslipidaemia in the last decade have enabled effective treatment for many patients. The development of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have been a major advance in that they possess multiple pharmacological effects (pleiotropic effects) resulting in potent reductions of low density lipoproteins (LDL) and prevention of the atherosclerotic process. More recently, the newer fibric acid derivatives have also reduced LDL to levels comparable to those achieved with statins, have reduced triglycerides, and gemfibrozil has been shown to increase high density lipoprotein (HDL) levels. Nicotinic acid has been made tolerable with sustained-release formulations, and is still considered an excellent choice in elevating HDL cholesterol and is potentially effective in reducing lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] levels, an emerging risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). Furthermore, recent studies have reported positive lipid-lowering effects from estrogen and/or progestogen in postmenopausal women but there are still conflicting reports on the use of these agents in dyslipidaemia and in females at risk for CHD. In addition to lowering lipid levels, these antihyperlipidaemic agents may have directly or indirectly targeted thrombogenic, fibrinolytic and atherosclerotic processes which may have been unaccounted for in their overall success in clinical trials. Although LDL cholesterol is still the major target for therapy, it is likely that over the next several years other lipid/lipoprotein and nonlipid parameters will become more generally accepted targets for specific therapeutic interventions. Some important emerging lipid/lipoprotein parameters that have been associated with CHD include elevated triglyceride, oxidised LDL cholesterol and Lp(a) levels, and low HDL levels. The nonlipid parameters include elevated homocysteine and fibrinogen, and decreased endothelial-derived nitric oxide production. Among the new investigational agents are inhibitors of squalene synthetase, acylCoA: cholesterol acyltransferase, cholesteryl ester transfer protein, monocyte-macrophages and LDL cholesterol oxidation. Future applications may include thyromimetic therapy, cholesterol vaccination, somatic gene therapy, and recombinant proteins, in particular, apolipoproteins A-I and E. Non-LDL-related targets such as peroxisome proliferator-activating receptors, matrix metalloproteinases and scavenger receptor class B type I may also have clinical significance in the treatment of atherosclerosis in the near future. Before lipid-lowering therapy, dietary and lifestyle modification is and should be the first therapeutic intervention in the management of dyslipidaemia. Although current recommendations from the US and Europe are slightly different, adherence to these recommendations is essential to lower the risk of atherosclerotic vascular disease, more specifically CHD. New guidelines that are expected in the near future will encompass global opinions from the expert scientific community addressing the issue of target LDL goal (aggressive versus moderate lowering) and the application of therapy for newer emerging CHD risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10932925
The hypertriglyceridemia attends the physiopathology of the atherosclerosis by various mechanisms: association of low levels of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-c), modification of quality of low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-c), influence on hemostatic processes, association with other hazard's factors (obesity, hypertension, etc.). The hypertriglyceridemia distinguishes in primary and secondary. In primary forms the origin is essentially genetic, while the secondary ones are metabolic consequence of various pathologies (renal, thyroid, diabetes mellitus etc.). The hypertriglyceridemia's treatment is founded on a correct feeding and/or on eventual use of drugs. Apart from the secondary forms, in which is obligatory to treat at first the basal disease, the pharmacological therapy of the hypertriglyceridemia is suggested only in resistant cases to alone dietetic therapy and overall in presence of other factors of atherothrombotic hazard. The most utilized drugs are: omega-3 fatty acids, the nicotinic acid and its derivatives, the fibrates and the statins. The stronghold of alpha-glucosidases inhibitors is the acarbose. It reduces the biosynthesis of very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) by the reduction of substrata with an improvement of glucidic metabolism. Atorvastatin and cerivastatin develop a greater action to reduce serum levels of triglycerides as to the foregoing ones because of the better selectivity of receptor binding, the greater halflife and inhibition of the apolipoprotein's B100 synthesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10933291
Onychomycosis is a disease that is important to our patients. Based on the current literature, recent developments of newer antifungal agents have improved cure rates of onychomycosis in the past few years (Table 3). No significant differences in safety and tolerability between itraconazole and terbinafine exist. Terbinafine does appear to have a preferable drug interaction profile. Daily therapy with either agent at standard doses has been shown to be effective when compared with placebo. When studies have directly compared daily administration of terbinafine and itraconazole, both medications have shown similar efficacy. Daily terbinafine therapy, however, appears to be more effective than pulse therapy with itraconazole. In addition, one small study showed a trend in favor of continuous rather than intermittent terbinafine therapy and similar efficacy of intermittent itraconazole and intermittent terbinafine therapy. Furthermore, terbinafine is more cost-effective than itraconazole. Finally, as quality-of-life data suggest, onychomycosis is important to our patients and affects both physical and psychosocial components of our patients' lives.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10933343
The aim of this review is to discuss the particularities of coronary artery disease (CAD), the effect of intensive medical management and the outcome of percutaneous and surgical revascularization in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10933350
We sought to determine the effects of oral L-arginine and the hexamethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor atorvastatin on endothelial function in young patients with type I diabetes mellitus (DM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10933353
The purpose of this study was to assess if simvastatin has an anti-inflammatory activity in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10933514
Various studies on the relationship between serum cholesterol level and the risk of stroke have been published recently. Subsequent reviews have extrapolated information on stroke from the clinical trials originally aimed at lowering cholesterol for the primary and secondary prevention of myocardial infarction (MI) in middle-aged patients. We have reviewed the epidemiological knowledge on the relationship between serum cholesterol levels and stroke, and also focused on possible reduction of the risk of stroke with hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor treatment. Possible benefits from such therapy are particularly relevant for the elderly population which is at particularly high risk for stroke. The effects of serum cholesterol levels on the risk for haemorrhagic and ischaemic stroke have been evaluated. Indirect epidemiological evidence indicates that serum levels of total cholesterol and its subfractions are determinants of stroke, but their associations are relatively weak. When exploring the possible association of serum cholesterol levels with the increased risk of stroke with aging, we concluded that, as in younger adults, elevated total cholesterol and decreased high density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels predispose to ischaemic stroke in the elderly. The mechanism through which serum cholesterol levels increase stroke risk is based on its actions on the artery walls. Indirect evidence suggests that the reduction in the stroke risk with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is larger than would be expected with reduction of elevated serum cholesterol level alone. Therefore, antioxidant and endothelium-stabilising properties of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may contribute in reducing the risk of stroke in recipients. Lowering high serum cholesterol with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors has been beneficial in the primary and secondary prevention of MI. No trials have specifically tested the effect of cholesterol lowering with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on stroke occurrence. High serum cholesterol levels are a risk factor for ischaemic stroke, although the risk imparted is lower than that for MI. Although the relative risk of stroke associated with elevated serum cholesterol levels is only moderate, its population attributable risk is high given the increase in the elderly population worldwide. The effect of cholesterol reduction with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on prevention of ischaemic stroke should be evaluated in prospective, randomised, placebo-controlled trials in the elderly. The tolerability of lipid-lowering drugs in the elderly and the cost effectiveness of primary prevention of stroke using lipid-lowering drugs also needs to be assessed in the elderly.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10934672
This open-label, single-dose, crossover study was conducted to assess the effect of irbesartan on the pharmacokinetics of total simvastatin acid in 14 healthy subjects. Subjects were randomized to receive one simvastatin 40 mg tablet or one simvastatin 40 mg tablet + one irbesartan 300 mg tablet. Subjects were crossed over to the other treatment after a 7- to 10-day washout period. Serum samples were collected at specified times before and over a 24-hour period after dosing. Safety was assessed by monitoring vital signs, laboratory tests, and adverse events. Irbesartan did not exhibit a clinically significant effect on the peak serum concentration and area under the concentration versus time curve to infinity (AUC0-infinity) of total simvastatin acid. The mean AUC0-infinity of total simvastatin acid was 74.55 ng x h/mL when simvastatin was given alone and 67.55 ng x h/mL when simvastatin and irbesartan were given concomitantly. The time to peak serum concentration for both treatments was 3 hours. No serious adverse events occurred during the study, and both agents were well tolerated. In summary, irbesartan had no significant effect on the single-dose pharmacokinetics of total simvastatin acid.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10936933
Analysis of the data of international multicentric clinical pharmacology trials disclosed that the Hungarian (and Eastern European) patients are more sick, than their western counterparts. The drug prescription habits in Hungary are close to that of international standards. The Hungarian doctors order more nitrates, anticoagulants and ACE inhibitors, but less cholesterol-lowering medication than in other countries. The door-to-needle time in Hungarian patients scheduled for thrombolysis was shorter than the mean. The high price of certain thrombolytic medications prevents Hungarian hospital's doctors to use optimal thrombolytic therapy. The high price of statins in Hungary relative to that of other medications for secondary prevention and to the average per capita income is one of the possible causes that this class of medication is used less frequently in Hungary than in Western Europe. This fact may prevent the decrease of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality on the long-term.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10939028
This randomized, double-blind study was undertaken to compare the effects of policosanol and pravastatin administered at 10 mg/day on lipid profile, platelet aggregation and endothelemia in older patients with type II hypercholesterolemia and high coronary risk. After 6 weeks on a lipid-lowering diet, patients with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels > 3.4 mmol/l were randomized to receive, under double-blind conditions, policosanol or pravastatin 10 mg tablets that were taken with the evening meal for 8 weeks. Policosanol significantly (p < 0.00001) lowered LDL-cholesterol (19.3%), total cholesterol (13.9%) and the ratios of LDL-cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol (28.3%) and total cholesterol/HDL-cholesterol (24.4%). Pravastatin significantly (p < 0.00001) lowered LDL-cholesterol (15.6%), total cholesterol (11.8%) and the ratios (p < 0.0001) of LDL-cholesterol/HDL-cholesterol (18.9%) and total cholesterol/HDL-cholesterol (15.7%). Policosanol, but not pravastatin, significantly increased (p < 0.001) levels of HDL-cholesterol (18.4%) and reduced (p < 0.01) triglycerides (14.1%). Policosanol was more effective (p < 0.05) than pravastatin in inhibiting platelet aggregation induced by all agonists and it significantly reduced (p < 0.0001) platelet aggregation induced by arachidonic acid at 1.5 and 3 mmol/l by 42.2% and 69.5%, respectively, platelet aggregation induced by collagen 0.5 microgram/ml (p < 0.05) (16.6%) and that induced by adenosine diphosphate 1 mumol/l (p < 0.01) (20.3%). Pravastatin significantly reduced (p < 0.001) (27%) only platelet aggregation induced by arachidonic acid 3 mmol/l. Both drugs significantly decreased (p < 0.00001) endothelemia levels but final values were significantly lower (p < 0.001) in the policosanol than in the pravastatin group. Both treatments were safe and well tolerated. Pravastatin significantly (p < 0.01) increased serum levels of alanine amine transferase but individual values remained within normal. Two patients on pravastatin discontinued the study because of adverse experiences (myocardial infarction and jaundice, respectively). In conclusion, the effects of policosanol (10 mg/day) on lipid profile, platelet aggregation and endothelemia in older patients with type II hypercholesterolemia and high coronary risk are more favorable than those induced by the same doses of pravastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10939029
This randomized, double-blind study was undertaken to compare the efficacy and tolerability of policosanol (10 mg/day) and lovastatin (20 mg/day) in patients with hypercholesterolemia and noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus. After 6 weeks on a lipid lowering diet, 53 patients were randomized to receive either policosanol or lovastatin tablets that were taken o.i.d. for 12 weeks under double-blind conditions. Both groups were similar at randomization. Policosanol significantly (p < 0.001) lowered low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (20.4%), total cholesterol (14.2%) and the ratio of LDL-cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol (23.7%). Lovastatin significantly (p < 0.01) lowered LDL-cholesterol (16.8%), total cholesterol (14.0%) and the ratio (p < 0.05) of LDL-cholesterol to HDL-cholesterol (14.9%). Triglyceride levels did not significantly change after therapy. Policosanol, but not lovastatin, significantly increased (p < 0.01) levels of HDL-cholesterol (7.5%). Comparison between groups showed that changes in HDL-cholesterol induced by policosanol were significantly greater (p < 0.01) than those induced by lovastatin. Both treatments were safe and well tolerated. Lovastatin moderately but significantly (p < 0.05) increased levels of aspartate aminotransferase, creatine phosphokinase and alkaline phosphatase. Adverse reactions were more frequent in the lovastatin group (p < 0.01) than in the policosanol group. In conclusion, policosanol administered at 10 mg/day produces more advantageous changes in HDL-cholesterol and has a better safety and tolerability profile than lovastatin 20 mg/day.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10939556
We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis to compare costs and clinical outcomes of sevelamer versus calcium carbonate plus atorvastatin for treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with chronic renal insufficiency. The model was from the third-party payer perspective. Efficacy and adverse event rates for each regimen were obtained from published clinical trials. Drug costs were based on average wholesale prices; monitoring costs were based on Medicare reimbursement rates. Our model suggests that the combination of calcium carbonate plus atorvastatin is substantially more cost-effective than sevelamer in reducing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) in these patients. One-way sensitivity analyses were performed to assess if 25% and 50% price reductions in sevelamer affected overall cost-effectiveness results. A 50% sevelamer price reduction was less expensive than combination therapy but remained less cost-effective. A two-way sensitivity analysis on the probability that a patient achieves the goal of a 35% LDL reduction resulted in calcium carbonate plus atorvastatin remaining more cost-effective. Further cost-effectiveness studies are necessary to corroborate our data.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10942738
The objective of this study was to estimate the long-term costs and benefits of treating hyperlipidemia among diabetic patients with and without known cardiovascular disease after validating the Cardiovascular Life Expectancy Model.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10945714
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10945715
The efficacy of lipid-lowering with statins has become clear. Indirect estimations, and direct measurements from long-term randomized trials have also demonstrated cost-effectiveness, both in secondary and primary prevention of coronary heart disease. Targeting care efficiently to high-risk groups by calculating absolute risk is essential. However, it is clear that what would normally be very cost-effective interventions will put substantial strain on health care resources because of the common nature of coronary disease and risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10945716
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) are effective treatments for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, but an outstanding issue is determining who should have such treatment. The benefit from treatment with statins appears to be proportional to the underlying risk of coronary heart disease and independent of the factors increasing risk. Most benefit will therefore be achieved by treating people at increased risk of coronary heart disease. Statins reduce coronary morbidity even when the risk of coronary heart disease is relatively low (6% over 10 years), but reduction in all-cause mortality, the true measure of safety has been shown only when the risk of a major coronary heart disease event is 15% over 10 years or greater. At this level of risk patients appear willing to take treatment to gain the benefit expected from statin treatment, and the cost effectiveness of statin treatment is within the range accepted for other treatments. The major impediments to the systematic introduction of statin treatment at this level of risk are the very high overall cost and the large workload in countries like Britain, where the population risk of coronary heart disease is high. For this reason, recent British guidelines correctly advise statin treatment for secondary prevention and primary prevention when the 10 year coronary heart disease risk is 30% or greater as the first priority, moving to a lower coronary heart disease threshold for primary prevention only when resources permit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10945717
Statin therapy has been conclusively shown to offer patients clinical benefit, virtually irrespective of their baseline risk status. However, the absolute risk reductions observed in different clinical trials, which have recruited patients across a spectrum of lipid levels and vascular disease states, show that baseline global risk determines the absolute benefit gained and in turn will specify the number of patients needed to be treated in order to realize this benefit. Global risk assessment is therefore central to the clinically meaningful use of statin therapy, and a strong case is now argued in the literature for a high-risk primary prevention strategy that goes hand in hand with standard secondary prevention. The routine use of Framingham-based risk assessment tools is advocated because these are the most widely evaluated and have been repeatedly shown to predict the risk of coronary heart disease accurately in western populations. The risk threshold in primary prevention that should determine pharmacological intervention is the subject of controversy. The currently used annual risk figure of 3% would clearly capture all very high-risk individuals but would also deny treatment to many individuals who will subsequently die from their first coronary event. Although a 1.5% annual risk threshold is economically untenable in the present UK health system, a level of 2% is, we believe, both achievable and affordable.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10945718
The results of serial angiographic studies and intervention trials in patients after coronary artery bypass artery grafting have provided ample evidence that abnormalities of the plasma lipoprotein system are one of the most significant risk factors for a rapid atherosclerotic attrition of saphenous vein grafts. In addition to confirming the well recognized role and contribution of cholesterol-rich LDL or lipoprotein B particles to the progression of atherosclerotic lesions, intervention trials have also provided strong evidence for the atherogenic capacity of some intact and partly delipidized triglyceride-rich very low density lipoprotein and intermediate density lipoprotein (lipoprotein B complex) particles, and the protective effect of some (high density lipoprotein 3) but not all high density lipoprotein particles. Most importantly, those studies have emphasized the need for an early, aggressive treatment of dyslipoproteinemias with pharmacological agents as the most efficient therapeutic approach to delaying, if not preventing, the detrimental effect of atherosclerosis on saphenous vein grafts.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10945727
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10945729
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10946033
Mixed hyperlipidemia is characterized by both elevated total cholesterol and triglycerides. It is estimated to account for 10% to 20% of patients with dyslipidemia. This study assessed the lipid-altering efficacy and tolerability of simvastatin 40 and 80 mg/day as monotherapy. One hundred thirty patients (62 women [48%], 24 [16%] with type 2 diabetes mellitus, mean age 53 years) with mixed hyperlipidemia (baseline low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol 156 mg/dl [mean], and triglycerides 391 mg/dl [median) were randomized in a multicenter, double-masked, placebo-controlled, 3-period, 22-week, balanced crossover study, and received placebo, and simvastatin 40 and 80 mg/day each for 6 weeks. Compared with placebo, simvastatin produced significant (p <0.01) and dose-dependent changes in all lipid and lipoprotein parameters (LDL cholesterol 2.1%, -28.9%, and -35.5%; triglycerides -3.5%, -27.8%, and -33.0%; high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 3.3%, 13.1%, and 15. 7%; apolipoprotein B 3.8%, -23.1%, and -30.6%; and apolipoprotein A-I 4.0%, 8.2%, and 10.5% with placebo, and simvastatin 40 and 80 mg/day, respectively). The changes were consistent in patients with diabetes mellitus. One patient taking simvastatin 80 mg/day had an asymptomatic and reversible increase in hepatic transaminases 3 times above the upper limit of normal. Simvastatin 40 and 80 mg/day is effective in patients with mixed hyperlipidemia across the entire lipid and lipoprotein profile. The reductions in LDL cholesterol and triglycerides are large, significant, and dose dependent. The increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was greater than that observed in patients with hypercholesterolemia, and appears dose dependent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10946527
In this randomized, double-blind, parallel group study, the efficacy and safety of cerivastatin (0.3 mg) and pravastatin (20 mg) were compared in 402 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia with and without documented coronary heart disease or peripheral vascular disease. After 8 weeks of treatment, cerivastatin provided significantly greater reductions than pravastatin in low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (31.1% vs. 26.0%; p < 0.0001) and total cholesterol (21.1% vs. 17.8%; p < 0.0001). A greater proportion of patients treated with cerivastatin than pravastatin achieved > 30% and > 40% reductions from baseline in LDL-cholesterol. Both agents also increased high density lipoprotein-cholesterol and reduced triglycerides. Overall, 65.1% of patients treated with cerivastatin and 63.3% of patients with pravastatin achieved LDL-cholesterol goals defined by the National Cholesterol Education Program. Both drugs were well tolerated, with most adverse events being mild. These results demonstrate that cerivastatin (0.3 mg) is a highly effective 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, which enables a large proportion of patients to achieve clinically meaningful reductions in LDL-cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10947198
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10947889
We examined the cardiovascular disease risk factor status of men and women with familial hyperlipidaemia (FH) 10-11 years after a clinical trial and asked whether first-degree relatives had undergone lipid testing. DESIGN SETTING AND SUBJECTS: Subjects started lipid-lowering drugs in 1987-88. Of 60 subjects, 12 had died, one emigrated and 35 men and 12 women took part in a follow-up clinical examination in 1998.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10952477
To study the effects of fluconazole on the pharmacokinetics of fluvastatin and pravastatin, two inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10952837
To determine characteristics, outcomes, prognostic indicators and management of patients with acute coronary syndromes without ST elevation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10952945
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10952951
Improved endothelial function may contribute to the beneficial effects of cholesterol-lowering therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10953258
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10953872
Homocysteinemia is regarded as a risk factor for vascular disease. Several risk factors and diseases, but also various drugs, amongst them some lipid lowering medications, have been shown to increase plasma homocysteine concentrations. We therefore assessed the influence of simvastatin on plasma homocysteine levels in 57 patients suffering from severe familial heterozygous hypercholesterolemia. After 1, 3 and 6 months of simvastatin therapy plasma homocysteine levels did not show any change compared to the levels before therapy. Males had typically higher homocysteine levels than females and concentrations in smokers were in most subgroups significantly higher than in non-smokers. No difference in patients taking either 20 or 40 mg simvastatin was apparent and no correlation to the lipid lowering action was found. These findings indicate that in contrast to a number of other lipid lowering agents, simvastatin does not affect plasma homocysteine levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10954339
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of pravastatin treatment on lipid, inflammation, and coagulation parameters in patients suffering from myocardial infarction with or without carotid atherosclerotic lesions (groups 1 and 2, respectively).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10954957
The availability of treatment guidelines has revolutionised our approach to detection, evaluation and treatment of dyslipidaemias in adults. Such guidelines focus on lowering low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C), the primary risk factor for coronary heart disease, and provide physicians with specific goals to be attained by dietary and, if necessary, pharmacological therapy. However, the guidelines were published in 1993, which means that the pivotal findings from large intervention trials with statins were not included. This has led to calls for the guidelines to be amended to take into account the findings of these studies and other evolving issues such as the pathogenesis of the acute coronary event and the contribution of low HDL-C and other lipid parameters. More importantly, the mostly epidemiological basis of the guidelines has instilled the concept that the lower the LDL-C level after lipid-lowering intervention the better the result in terms of prevention of coronary events. Available data now refute this assumption. Indeed, maximal therapeutic benefit is already obtained with a decrease in LDL-C level of 20-30%, irrespective of baseline levels or LDL-C levels on treatment and, until now, there have been no data to suggest that decreases in LDL-C of > 30% give any additional benefit to patients in terms of improving their long-term outcome. The concept of absolute LDL-C treatment goals therefore needs to be revisited. A more appropriate goal of lipid-lowering therapy with statins is to ensure LDL-C levels are reduced by 20-30%, with statin dosages as used in the intervention trials. Furthermore, there are insufficient data to advise that LDL-C levels should be lowered to 2.6 mmol/l. This issue will be resolved only when the results of the appropriate intervention trials are published.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10955373
The clinical efficacy of NK-104, a novel and totally synthetic hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, was assessed in 30 patients (men/women = 15/15, mean age 51 years) with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. After a placebo phase of >4 weeks, NK-104 was given at an initial dose of 2 mg/day for 8 weeks, which was increased to 4 mg/day for a further 8 weeks. As a result of 2 mg/day of NK-104 treatment, mean +/- SD of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels decreased significantly (p<0.0001) from baseline, namely from 8.80+/-1.38 to 6.11+/-1.09 mmol/L (-31%) and from 6.81+/-1.52 to 4.09+/-1.03 mmol/L (-40%), respectively. They decreased further (p<0.0001) as a result of 4-mg/day administration, to 5.52+/-0.81 mmol/L (-37%) and 3.55+/-0.85 mmol/L (-48%), respectively. Changes in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels failed to reach statistical significance. Serum triglyceride levels decreased significantly (p<0.0001) from baseline as a result of 4 mg/day of NK-104, from 1.99+/-1.72 to 1.35+/-0.90 mmol/L (-23%). Serum apolipoprotein B, CII, CIII, and E levels significantly decreased: mean changes from baseline at the end of the study were -41% (p<0.0001), -27% (p<0.0001), -19% (p = 0.002), and -37% (p<0.0001), respectively. On the other hand, apolipoprotein AI and All levels significantly increased as a result of the treatment: + 10% (p = 0.002) and +6% (p = 0.008), respectively. There were no adverse events observed in either clinical or laboratory findings that could be attributed to the treatment. These results suggest that the potency of NK-104 appears to be dose-dependent, and that NK-104 is safe and well tolerated in the treatment of patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, and thus also provides a new therapeutic choice for subjects requiring lipid-modifying therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10959773
In the years to come, pharmacogenomics will make an impact on the development of new drugs. Numerous publications have shown that gene polymorphism can influence drug toxicity and/or efficacy. In order to improve current applications of pharmacogenomics, some technical limitations regarding marker generation, genotyping and biostatistical analysis are being overcome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10961170
Strokes are one of the most common causes of mortality and long term severe disability. There is evidence that lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) is a predictor of many forms of vascular disease, including premature coronary artery disease. Several studies have also evaluated the association between Lp(a) and ischaemic (thrombotic) stroke. Several cross sectional (and a few prospective) studies provide contradictory findings regarding Lp(a) as a predictor of ischaemic stroke. Several factors might contribute to the existing confusion--for example, small sample sizes, different ethnic groups, the influence of oestrogens in women participating in the studies, plasma storage before Lp(a) determination, statistical errors, and selection bias. This review focuses on the Lp(a) related mechanisms that might contribute to the pathogenesis of ischaemic stroke. The association between Lp(a) and other cardiovascular risk factors is discussed. Therapeutic interventions that can lower the circulating concentrations of Lp(a) and thus possibly reduce the risk of stroke are also considered.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10963717
The prominent role of redox processes in tissue injury and in vascular cell signaling suggest their involvement in the repair reaction to vessel injury, which is a key determinant of restenosis post-angioplasty. Experimental studies showed a protective effect of superoxide dismutase or antioxidants on vasospasm, neointimal thickening or remodeling after balloon injury. It was also shown that oxidized thiols induce chelatable metal-dependent amplification of the vascular repair reaction. Ongoing or completed clinical trials show a promising effect of the antioxidant probucol against restenosis. However, few studies addressed the molecular physiological mechanisms underlying the redox hypothesis of restenosis. We recently showed evidence for marked oxidative stress early after balloon injury, with superoxide production mediated primarily by non-endothelial NAD(P)H oxidase-type flavoenzyme(s). This effect was closely related to the degree of injury. There is evidence supporting a role for such early redox processes in apoptotic cell loss and NF-kappa B activation. We present new data on the time course of oxidative stress after balloon injury of intact rabbit iliac arteries. Our data show that despite substantial neointimal growth and lumen narrowing, superoxide production and glutathione levels are unaltered at day 14 and 28 after balloon injury. At day 7 after injury, the peak neointimal proliferation in this model, there was significant decrease of vascular superoxide dismutase activity, without clear evidence of spontaneous superoxide production. Thus, oxidative stress after injury is likely to be an early transient event, which parallels the inflammatory and proliferative phases of the vascular response. We propose that such early redox processes act as dose-dependent signal transducers of gene programs that affect the final repair.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10964582
Both impaired and enhanced microvascular function have been described in humans on cyclosporin A (CsA) therapy. In the present study we investigated the acute microvascular effects of a single CsA administration in renal transplant recipients on maintenance CsA therapy. Fourteen renal transplant recipients, median age 48 years (range 24-63 years), transplanted 4-12 weeks earlier, were included in this placebo-controlled, double-blinded, crossover study. All recipients had stable renal function; median serum creatinine was 116 micromol/L (range 80-184 micromol/L). Immunosuppressive therapy consisted of CsA, prednisolone, and either azathioprine or mycophenolate. Microvascular function was assessed by laser Doppler flowmetry in combination with acetylcholine (endothelium dependent) stimulation and the postocclusive reactive hyperemia test. Measurements were performed before (control) and 2.5 h following administration of CsA (Neoral) or matching placebo and repeated with reversed medication after at least 6 days. Vasodilative responses to acetylcholine stimulation were significantly higher following CsA ingestion compared with placebo. The mean change in AUC(1.5) (area under the flux versus time curve) from control to 2.5 h was 100 +/-145 for CsA and -292 +/- 140 AU x min for placebo (P = 0.047, n = 10). The postocclusive hyperemic response AUC(rh) was also significantly higher following CsA intake (39 +/- 4 AU x min) compared to placebo (30 +/- 4 AU x min) (P = 0.006, n = 12). This study shows that each dose of CsA induces a transient increase in skin microvascular reactivity in renal transplant recipients. We speculate that this might be due to the potentiation of one or several endothelial-dependent compensatory vasodilative mechanisms in the microvascular bed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10971313
To study whether intravenous diltiazem, a calcium channel blocker commonly prescribed for hypertension and stable angina, is an inhibitor of the CYP3A enzymes by using oral lovastatin, an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor, as a substrate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10972631
There is controversy about whether lipid-lowering pharmacotherapy should be initiated immediately after an acute coronary event or only after diet and lifestyle changes have proved inadequate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10974215
Clinical trials of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors or statin therapy demonstrate an improvement in cardiovascular end points and coronary stenosis. However, an improvement in cardiovascular end points and coronary stenosis is incompletely explained by the baseline or treated LDL cholesterol level. The beneficial effects of statins on clinical events may involve nonlipid mechanisms that modify endothelial function, smooth muscle cells, and monocyte-macrophage: vasomotor function, inflammatory responses, and plaque stability. Augmented bioactivity of NO by statin therapy either indirectly by its effect on lipoprotein levels and protection of LDL from oxidation, or directly by effects on NO synthesis and release, might account for enhancement of endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Recent experimental and animal studies have demonstrated that statins dose-dependently decrease smooth muscle cells migration and proliferation, independently of their ability to reduce plasma cholesterol. Moreover, statins are able to reduce the in vitro cholesterol accumulation in macrophages and expression of matrix metalloproteinase, resulting in plaque stability. These effects of statins were completely prevented by the addition of mevalonate and partially by all-trans farnesol and all-trans geranylgeraniol, confirming the specific role of isoprenoid metabolites, probably through prenylated proteins, in regulating these cellular events. Statins have been shown to prevent the activation of monocytes into macrophages, inhibit the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, C-reactive protein, and cellular adhesion molecules. Statins decrease the adhesion of monocyte to endothelial cells. Accordingly, statins exert their cardiovascular benefits through a direct antiatherogenic properties in the arterial wall, beyond their effects on plasma lipids.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10975586
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) regulates vascular tone in congestive heart failure and modulates renal function. Its role in patients with normal left ventricular (LV) function and its renal effects are unclear. Cardiac and renal hemodynamics were studied in 24 patients with normal LV function and coronary arteries after single-dose, double-blind, randomized administration of TAK-044 (25, 50, or 100 mg, i.v.), an ET(A/B)-receptor antagonist, or placebo. Hemodynamics were monitored using Swan-Ganz and arterial catheters, and ET levels were measured. Renal function was assessed by clearance techniques. In the absence of a dose-response relation, TAK-044 patients were analyzed as a single group. Most hemodynamic effects occurred during the first 4 h. TAK-044 reduced mean arterial (-9.3 mm Hg, p < 0.001), pulmonary (-1.8 mm Hg, p = 0.01), and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (-1.6 mm Hg, p < 0.001) between 30 min and 4 h. Mean reduction in systemic vascular resistance was 279 dyne/s/cm2 (p < 0.001), whereas heart rate increased 6.1 beats/min (p < 0.001) and cardiac index by 0.37 L/m2 (p = 0.01). Stroke volume index, right atrial pressure, and pulmonary vascular resistance did not change. TAK-044 increased renal plasma flow in proportion to the increase in cardiac output (+119 ml/min, 4 h after TAK-044; p < 0.05) and ET-1 levels (2.5-fold; p < 0.05). No serious side effects were noted. In patients with normal cardiac function, ET-receptor blockade causes vasodilation and reduces systemic but not pulmonary vascular resistance and increases cardiac index and renal plasma flow.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10976657
Cerivastatin sodium, a novel statin, is a synthetic, enantiomerically pure, pyridine derivative that effectively reduces serum cholesterol levels at microgram doses. Cerivastatin is readily and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, with plasma concentrations reaching a peak 2 to 3 hours postadministration followed by a monoexponential decay with an elimination half-life (t1/2beta) of 2 to 3 hours. Cerivastatin pharmacokinetics are linear: maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) are proportional to the dose over the range of 0.05 to 0.8 mg. No accumulation is observed on repeated administration. Cerivastatin interindividual variability is described by coefficients of variation of approximately 30 to 40% for its primary pharmacokinetic parameters AUC, Cmax and t1/2beta. The mean absolute oral bioavailability of cerivastatin is 60% because of presystemic first-pass effects. Its pharmacokinetics are not influenced by concomitant administration of food nor by the time of day at which the dose is given. Age, gender, ethnicity and concurrent disease also have no clinically significant effects. Cerivastatin is highly bound to plasma proteins (>99%). The volume of distribution at steady state of about 0.3 L/kg indicates that the drug penetrates only moderately into tissue; conversely, preclinical studies have shown a high affinity for liver tissue, the target site of action. Cerivastatin is exclusively cleared via metabolism. No unchanged drug is excreted. Cerivastatin is subject to 2 main oxidative biotransformation reactions: demethylation of the benzylic methyl ether moiety leading to the metabolite M-1 [catalysed by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C8 and CYP3A4] and stereoselective hydroxylation of one methyl group of the 6-isopropyl substituent leading to the metabolite M-23 (catalysed by CYP2C8). The product of the combined biotransformation reactions is a secondary minor metabolite, M-24, not detectable in plasma. All 3 metabolites are active inhibitors of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase with a similar potency to the parent drug. Approximately 70% of the administered dose is excreted as metabolites in the faeces, and 30% in the urine. Metabolism by 2 distinct CYP isoforms renders cerivastatin relatively resistant to interactions arising from inhibition of CYP. If one of the pathways is blocked, cerivastatin can be effectively metabolised by the alternative route. In addition, on the basis of in vitro investigations, there is no evidence for either cerivastatin or its metabolites having any inducing or inhibitory activity on CYP. The apparent lack of any clinically relevant interactions with a variety of drugs commonly used by patients in the target population supports this favourable drug-drug interaction profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10979113
Although niacin increases low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), which frequently accompany diabetes, current guidelines do not recommend use of niacin in patients with diabetes because of concerns about adverse effects on glycemic control; however, this is based on limited clinical data.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10979886
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10980214
This study describes the rationale, design, and baseline characteristics of a trial to determine whether treatment with fosinopril 20 mg/day and/or pravastatin 40 mg/ day will prevent cardiovascular and renal disease in nonhypertensive (RR <160/100 mm Hg and not using antihypertensive medication) and nonhypercholesterolemic (total cholesterol <8.0 or <5.0 mmol/L in case of previous myocardial infarction and not using lipid lowering medication) men and women with persistent microalbuminuria (urinary albumin excretion >10 mg/L once in an early morning spot urine and 15 to 300 mg/24-hour at least once in two 24-hour urine collections). The Prevention of REnal and Vascular ENdstage Disease Intervention Trial is a single-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial with a 2 x 2 factorial design. The 864 randomized subjects will be monitored for a minimum of 4 years and a maximum of 5 years. The primary efficacy parameter is defined as the combined incidence of all-cause mortality or hospital admission for documented (1) nonfatal myocardial infarction, (2) myocardial ischemia, (3) heart failure, (4) peripheral vascular disease, (5) cerebrovascular accident and/or (6) end-stage renal disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10980845
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10980910
Randomized clinical trials have established that lipid- lowering pharmacologic therapy can substantially reduce morbidity and mortality in patients with known coronary artery disease (CAD). Researchers are now working to define the role of lipid-lowering agents in the primary prevention of CAD to extend their benefit to patients at increased risk for future coronary events. The risk assessment models presently used for secondary prevention are not sufficient to identify high-risk, asymptomatic patients. Building on the accumulated data about the physiologic mechanisms and metabolic factors that contribute to CAD, novel serum markers and diagnostic tests are being critically studied to gauge their utility for the assessment of high-risk patients and occult vascular disease. New risk prediction models that combine traditional risk factors for CAD with the prudent use of new screening methods will allow clinicians to target proven risk reduction therapies at high-risk patients before they experience a cardiac event.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10980911
The underlying disorder in the vast majority of cases of cardiovascular disease is atherosclerosis, for which low-density lipoprotein cholesterol is recognized as a major risk factor. Data from epidemiologic studies have suggested that lower cholesterol levels are associated with a lower overall risk of morbidity and mortality due to coronary heart disease. Numerous clinical trials with lipid-lowering agents support these epidemiologic data. Of these, studies with the HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A) reductase inhibitors, or statins, have shown the greatest lipid-lowering effects. Data from recent trials such as the Atorvastatin Versus Revascularization Treatment contribute to a growing body of evidence that suggests that aggressive reduction of cholesterol can yield additional clinical benefits above and beyond that observed with less robust treatment regimens. Aggressive cholesterol-lowering strategies have the potential therefore to have a significant impact on levels of atherosclerotic disease throughout the westernized world. Such effects argue in favor of renaming the entire class of drugs as anti- atherosclerotic rather than lipid-lowering agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10980912
Over the past 15 years several studies have examined the benefits of treating patients with dyslipidemia in order to prevent a first cardiac event and to prevent the onset of clinical symptoms of coronary atherosclerosis. Some of the pitfalls of these studies have been that they have been performed predominantly in men, and also in patients with extremely high cholesterol levels. The Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study (AFCAPS/TexCAPS) provides substantial additional information regarding the benefits of primary prevention in the general population. The study included large numbers of women as well as subjects with a wide variety of ethnic backgrounds, and showed substantial benefit across this population. Patients with average cholesterol levels, but below-average high-density lipoproteins, had substantial reduction in risk of a first cardiac event with aggressive treatment of their dyslipidemia, using lovastatin. The majority of the patients in the AFCAPS/TexCAPS study would not warrant therapy, based on the current National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel guidelines. The data suggest that new strategies are warranted to better identify those patients who are at high risk and those who will receive benefit from aggressive lipid-lowering therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10983019
Familial hypercholesterolemia is characterized by high serum levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol. It may be homozygous or heterozygous. In homozygous patients, LDL-cholesterol levels range from 500 to 1000 mg/dL and coronary artery disease is precocious, usually manifesting itself between the 2nd and 3rd decades of life. The diagnosis is often made by the presence of xanthoma tuberosum and tendinous xanthomas that appear between the 1st and 2nd decades of life. The use of high doses of statins or even unusual procedures (apheresis, partial ileal bypass surgery, liver transplantation, gene therapy), or both, is necessary for increasing survival and improving quality of life, because a reduction in cholesterol levels is essential for stabilizing the coronary artery disease and reducing xanthomas. We report our experience with 3 patients with xanthomatous familial hypercholesterolemia and coronary artery disease, who underwent partial ileal bypass surgery. Their follow-up over the years (approximately 8 years) showed a mean 30% reduction in total cholesterol, with a significant reduction in the xanthomas and stabilization of the coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10983656
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10984551
Abnormal lipid levels contribute significantly to the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD), which is increased further in the presence of other risk factors. The association between elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and CHD risk is well established, and large primary and secondary prevention studies of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have shown conclusively that lowering LDL cholesterol levels reduces CHD events and total mortality. Regardless of the intervention used (diet, surgery, drugs), reduction of plasma cholesterol has consistently produced a reduction in cardiovascular risk. Absolute benefit is greatest in those who are at highest risk initially, and trial results suggest that the lower the LDL cholesterol level achieved, at least down to LDL of 3.0 mmol/l, then the lower is the CHD event risk. Epidemiological data also point to the negative impact of other lipids on CHD risk. Low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and high levels of triglycerides (particularly in conjunction with an LDL/HDL ratio >5) are particularly strong risk factors for CHD. Thus, although prevention trials to date have primarily assessed the impact of LDL lowering on CHD events, the initial assessment of CHD risk should consider a more detailed atherogenic profile including HDL and triglyceride levels. A general approach to preventing cardiovascular disease should include strategies to reduce the overall CHD risk by lifestyle modification and management of modifiable risk factors such as smoking, hypertension and diabetes. Based on data from recent prevention studies, and because they are the most potent lipid-lowering agents available for lowering LDL cholesterol, statins have appropriately become the drug of choice for most patients with hyperlipidaemia who require drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10985515
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10987582
The recent publication of the Atorvastatin Versus Revascularization Treatment (AVERT) trial has renewed debate on the optimal management strategy for relatively stable patients with coronary artery disease. Currently, coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention are often performed in stable patients with good exercise tolerance who have not been treated with proven medications such as aspirin, statins and beta-adrenergic blocking agents in conjunction with comprehensive lifestyle modification. We review the results of prior trials comparing medical therapy with angioplasty and assess their strengths and limitations and then make conclusions about the aggregate data. Next, we describe the ongoing Clinical Outcome Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive Drug Evaluation (COURAGE) trial, which will be the largest of the studies comparing optimal medical therapy and percutaneous revascularization. This study will employ intensive medical management in all patients with coronary disease, and the incremental benefit of state of the art revascularization techniques in terms of clinical event reduction, quality of life issues and cost-effectiveness will be addressed. For now, aggressive medical therapy and revascularization should be viewed as complementary rather than opposing strategies. All patients with coronary heart disease should receive proven medical and lifestyle prescriptions to favorably alter the atherosclerotic process. Percutaneous revascularization without comprehensive risk factor modification is a suboptimal therapeutic strategy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10987598
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10987719
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10988008
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10988016
The Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study reported that diet with lovastatin, 20-40 mg daily, reduced the risk for a first coronary event by 37%. Because only 17% of this cohort would have qualified for drug therapy according to current U.S. guidelines, we assessed clinical benefit by risk categories.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10988199
Improvement in coronary artery endothelial function has been demonstrated after cholesterol lowering in hypercholesterolemic patients with significant atherosclerosis. However, to our knowledge, no previous study has shown improvement in resistance artery function in subjects with normal coronary arteries after cholesterol lowering. The purpose of our study was to investigate the effect of cholesterol lowering with pravastatin on coronary resistance artery endothelial function in the setting of angiographically normal coronary arteries.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10992997
Secondary coronary prevention with lipid lowering drugs has become a major issue in health policy formulation due to the large upfront investment in drug therapy. The recently completed LIPID trial with pravastatin in secondary prevention immediately raise the question whether pravastatin might be cost-effective in Germany. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis from the perspective of third party payers. The following costs were included in the analysis: daily treatment costs of pravastatin, non-fatal myocardial infarction, coronary bypass operations and stroke. Life years gained were obtained by applying the declining exponential approximation of life expectancy. All calculations were standardized to 1,000 treated patients. The net costs of treating 1,000 patients (i.e. drug costs minus the costs of sequelae and interventions) are DM 8.4 Mio. In addition, a total of 405 life years may be saved through treatment. The corresponding cost-effectiveness of pravastatin treatment is DM 20,674,-(DM 17,314,-, discounted by 3% p.a.).

Abstract for pubmed ID 10995396
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10995974
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10996333
Changes in cardiovascular risk after lipid lowering medications are generally expressed as relative risk reduction (RRR). Comparison of the eight major studies published in this last decade indicates that the RRRs ranged from a minimum (19%) for the LRC Study with cholestyramine, to maximal values of 34-37% for studies such as the HHS, 4S and AFCAPS/TexCAPS. These RRRs were barely related to the drugs' effects on major lipid parameters, e.g. LDL cholesterol. Instead, by using the absolute risk reduction (ARRs), easily calculated by subtracting the percentage end points for the drug treated from these values of the placebo group in all studies, a wide range of values was found, also adding to the series a non pharmacological study such as the Program on the Surgical Control of the Hyperlipidemias (POSCH) trial. Calculated ARRs were directly correlated to the baseline cardiovascular (CV) risk in all studies, thus allowing an easy prediction of a drug's effect in the selected population. Drugs with different mechanisms (statins, fibrates and resins) all fitted into this correlation nomogram. These findings clearly indicate that the CV effects of lipid changes, such as LDL cholesterol and triglyceride reduction or HDL rises, are in the same direction, and can be well predicted. The similar, almost identical behavior of drugs affecting LDL cholesterolemia to a different degree or not at all, indicates that novel approaches should be sought to improve risk reduction and that individual therapy should be ideally pursued, rather than a 'one drug' approach.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10996358
Hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors, or statins, have been shown to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Atherosclerotic plaque lesions can be chronically inflamed and vulnerable to rupture or stable and less rupture-prone. Human smooth muscle cells (SMC) are critically important in maintaining the stability of atherosclerotic plaques. This stability may be greatly influenced by pro-inflammatory mediators such as IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, and Il-1beta and Fas ligand (FasL) that are present in human atheroma. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of the statins on apoptosis of SMC. We have found that SMC are normally resistant to Fas or cytokine-induced apoptosis, but can be sensitized to these agents with pharmacological concentrations of some statins. Simvastatin and lovastatin strongly sensitized the cells to apoptotic agents while atorvastatin was less effective. In contrast to the lipophilic statins, the hydrophilic statin pravastatin did not induce this sensitization of SMC to apoptosis. Treatment of SMC with either mevalonate, the product of the HMG-CoA reductase, or geranylgeranylpyrophosphate, a down stream intermediate, prevented lipophilic statin-induced sensitization to apoptosis. These results suggest that prenylation of one or more proteins is critically involved in regulating the sensitivity of SMC to apoptotic stimuli. Our data support the emerging evidence that through this pathway the various statins may have effects which are beyond a simple lowering of the levels of circulating cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10998478
Hyperlipidemia is common in type 2 diabetic patients and is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The aim of this trial was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of once-daily atorvastatin 10-80 mg for the treatment of hyperlipidemia in type 2 diabetics with plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels exceeding 3.4 mmol/l (130 mg/dl). One hundred and two patients met the study criteria and received 10 mg/day atorvastatin. Patients who reached the target LDL-C level of </=2.6 mmol/l (100 mg/dl) maintained the same dosage regimen until they had completed 16 weeks of treatment. Patients not reaching the target LDL-C underwent dose titration to atorvastatin 20, 40 and 80 mg/day at Weeks 4, 8 and 12, respectively. All 88 patients who completed the study attained target LDL-C levels and 52 (59%) of patients achieved the target goal at the starting dose of atorvastatin 10 mg/day. In this group the differences between baseline and post-treatment values for LDL-C were 4.3+/-0.7 mmol/l (166+/-26 mg/dl) versus 2. 2+/-0.4 mmol/l (87+/-14 mg/dl) (P<0.0001), respectively, a decrease of 47%. Similar trends were observed for total cholesterol, triglycerides, very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein B levels. The safety profile of atorvastatin in these patients was highly favorable and similar to those reported with other statins. Only one patient withdrew due to a possible drug-related adverse event. These data confirm the marked efficacy and safety of atorvastatin in type 2 diabetic patients with hyperlipidemia and the efficacy of atorvastatin 10 mg in helping patients attain their LDL-C goal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10998481
We tested the effects of vitamin C and atorvastatin treatment on endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent vasodilation in 18 hypercholesterolemic patients (ten men and eight women, aged 20-46 years) in comparison with 12 normal volunteers (seven men and five women, aged 20-45 years). The responses of the forearm blood flow (FBF) to acetylcholine (ACh) (7.5, 15 and 30 microg/min), sodium nitroprusside (SNP) (0.8, 1.6, 3.2 microg/min) and L-NMMA (2, 4, 8 micromol/min) were evaluated at baseline and after 1 month of atorvastatin (10 mg/day) treatment. Drugs were infused into the brachial artery and FBF was measured by strain-gauge plethysmography. At baseline, the response to ACh was significantly attenuated in hypercholesterolemics versus controls: at the highest dose (30 microg/min), FBF was 27.0+/-3.4 versus 11.5+/-1.9 ml.100 ml tissue(-1).min(-1) respectively (P<0.0001). No significant differences were found between groups during SNP infusion. The atorvastatin treatment significantly improved ACh-stimulated FBF: at highest dose the FBF increased to 14.9+/-1.5 ml.100 ml tissue(-1). min(-1) (P<0.0001). Similarly, the L-NMMA endothelial effects were significantly enhanced by lipid-lowering treatment, supporting the improvement of basal nitric oxide. Vitamin C increased ACh-vasodilation in the same way before and after atorvastatin treatment. In conclusion, the endothelial dysfunction in hypercholesterolemics is due to an oxidative stress and atorvastatin rapidly improves both basal and stimulated endothelium-dependent vasodilation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10998482
We studied the rebound of lipoproteins in 20 hypercholesterolemic men [mean total cholesterol (TC) levels 9.6+/-1.8 mmol/l] after LDL-apheresis (LA) to determine the rate of recovery and the change in cholesterol synthesis, and to find a uniform estimation for time-averaged levels. After 10-20 months on biweekly LA using dextran sulfate cellulose columns and concomitant simvastatin administration, time-averaged levels (+/-SD) measured by integration of the area under the curve were as follows: TC 4.4+/-1.0 mmol/l, LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) 2.5+/-1.0 mmol/l, apolipoprotein B (apo B) 1. 3+/-0.3 g/l, triglycerides (TG) 1.7+/-0.7 mmol/l, HDL-C 1.1+/-0.2 mmol/l, and lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] 53.7+/-49.4 mg/dl. Mean acute reductions in TC, LDL-C, apo B, Lp(a), and TG were 61, 77, 75, 76, and 62%, respectively. HDL-C levels were not influenced. Median recovery half times for TC, LDL-C, apo B, and Lp(a) were 3.0, 4.0, 2. 3, and 3.5 days, respectively. The rebound of Lp(a) was identical to LDL-C, in 12 and 13 days post-treatment, respectively, whereas apo B and TC returned to pre-treatment levels in 7.5 and 10 days, respectively, due to the fast rebound of VLDL particles. Notwithstanding these differences, time-averaged levels (C(AVG)) could be estimated uniformly for the four latter parameters with the formula: C(AVG)=C(MIN)+0.73(C(MAX)-C(MIN)), where C(MAX) and C(MIN) are the immediate pre- and post-treatment levels. During long-term treatment the whole-body cholesterol synthesis was increased as measured by the ratio lathosterol to cholesterol of 3.24+/-1.49 mmol/mmol, whereas no further transient increase in the recovery period after LA was found. In conclusion, long-term LA and simvastatin therapy induced acute and chronic changes in lipids and lipoproteins showing the feasibility of biweekly treatment. It was shown that time-averaged levels, as a measure for the effective plasma levels, can be accurately estimated from pre- and post-treatment levels only.

Abstract for pubmed ID 10999492
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10999994
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 10999995
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11005703
The availability of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors has revolutionised the treatment of lipid abnormalities in patients at risk for the development of coronary atherosclerosis. The relatively widespread experience with HMG-CoA therapy has allowed a clear picture to emerge concerning the relative tolerability of these agents. While HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been shown to decrease complications from atherosclerosis and to improve total mortality, concern has been raised as to the long term safety of these agents. They came under close scrutiny in early trials because ocular complications had been seen with older inhibitors of cholesterol synthesis. However, extensive evaluation demonstrated no significant adverse alteration of ophthalmological function by the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Extensive experience with the potential adverse effect of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on hepatic function has accumulated. The effect on hepatic function for the various HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is roughly dose-related and 1 to 3% of patients experience an increase in hepatic enzyme levels. The majority of liver abnormalities occur within the first 3 months of therapy and require monitoring. Rhabdomyolysis is an uncommon syndrome and occurs in approximately 0.1% of patients who receive HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor monotherapy. However, the incidence is increased when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are used in combination with agents that share a common metabolic path. The role of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme system in drug-drug interactions involving HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors has been extensively studied. Atorvastatin, cerivastatin, lovastatin and simvastatin are predominantly metabolised by the CYP3A4 isozyme. Fluvastatin has several metabolic pathways which involve the CYP enzyme system. Pravastatin is not significantly metabolised by this enzyme and thus has theoretical advantage in combination therapy. The major interactions with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in combination therapy involving rhabdomyolysis include fibric acid derivatives, erythromycin, cyclosporin and fluconazole. Additional concern has been raised relative to overzealous lowering of cholesterol which could occur due to the potency of therapy with these agents. Currently, there is no evidence from clinical trials of an increase in cardiovascular or total mortality associated with potent low density lipoprotein reduction. However, a threshold effect had been inferred by retrospective analysis of the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events study utilising pravastatin and the role of aggressive lipid therapy is currently being addressed in several large scale trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11006798
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11006802
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11009268
Left ventricular (LV) mass is a powerful predictor for future cardiovascular events. Epidemiologic studies have shown that hyperlipidemia is associated with higher LV mass. The effects of statin therapy for hyperlipidemia on LV mass have not been studied. To determine the effects of statin therapy on LV mass, we prospectively studied 3 groups of age and body surface area-matched patients: group 1 (n = 20), patients with systemic hypertension and hyperlipidemia treated with pravastatin plus anti-hypertensive drugs; group 2 (n = 20), patients with hypertension and hyperlipidemia treated with hypertensive agents and diet control alone; and group 3 (n = 20), hypertensive patients with normolipidemia treated with antihypertensive agents. A group of controls without hypertension or hyperlipidemia was used for comparison. Echocardiograms were recorded at baseline and after 6-month therapy. All hypertensive groups showed significant decreases in LV mass index after treatment. Group 1 had the greatest decrease in LV mass and it was significantly higher than in groups 2 and 3. Multivariate analysis revealed that regression of LV mass was significantly correlated only with the use of statins and sex (p = 0.005 and 0.01, respectively, R(2) = 0.47). Linear regression analysis in group 1 showed a significant correlation between changes in arterial compliance and LV mass regression (r = 0.57, p = 0.01). Thus, the addition of a statin may have an additional effect on reducing LV mass, independent of lipid-lowering effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11009276
The clinical and biochemical determinants of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and triglyceride response to simvastatin and atorvastatin were assessed in 150 patients with severe hyperlipidemia treated in a randomized open-trial format design. Triglyceride reduction was only dependent on HDL:apolipoprotein A1, change in apolipoprotein B, and dose response, whereas an increase in HDL was dependent on initial LDL, change in LDL or dose response, and therapy with simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11009292
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11011217
Diabetic nephropathy is associated with an altered lipid profile characterized by elevated triglyceride rich lipoproteins, present even in the earlier stages of the renal disease. Although many experimental studies have demonstrated a significant deleterious role for hyperlipidemia in both the initiation and progression of renal injury, data remain more conflicting in humans. A few prospective studies, mostly in type 2 diabetes, have suggested an independent role for serum cholesterol level in the subsequent development of incipient or overt diabetic nephropathy. Furthermore, studies have reported in both types of diabetes an independent deleterious influence of serum total cholesterol on the decline in renal function and/or progression of albuminuria. However, the majority of these studies were post hoc analyses of previously controlled therapeutic trials with several observational studies not confirming these findings. It remains controversial whether apolipoprotein E gene polymorphism is an important factor in the development of diabetic nephropathy. Most of the interventional studies with lipid-lowering therapy in diabetic nephropathy have used HMG CoA reductase inhibitors and have been inconclusive. This may be due to a too short follow-up or insufficient number of patients. Further larger prospective studies are therefore required to better ascertain the role of lipids in the progression of diabetic nephropathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11011346
Endothelial dysfunction is an early event in atherosclerotic disease that precedes clinical manifestations and complications. The noninvasive assessment of endothelial function in patients with risk factors undergoing clinical treatment is an important medical advance. In this setting, altered endothelial function in patients with coronary hypercholesterolemia and its modifications by treatment with enalapril and simvastatin, either separately or in combination, was assessed in the brachial artery in a randomized, double-blind, 2-period crossover study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11011861
Natural supplements are widely used by the American public but, while claims of their therapeutic effects abound, medical research does not always support their effectiveness. Clinical trials using Q10 for the management of congestive heart failure have had conflicting results; hawthorn is prescribed in Germany for the treatment of this condition, but no trials have been conducted in the United States. Although initial research about the use of garlic in the management of hypercholesterolemia was encouraging, follow-up studies have failed to verify these results. Substituting soy protein for high-fat animal protein diets, however, does have a beneficial effect on serum lipid levels. So far, cholestin (a natural product containing several statins) has proved to be a cost-saving lipid-lowering medication, and fenugreek may offer modest improvement as well. Gugulipid is also promising but requires further research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11012550
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11012570
To study the effects of short (6 months) and longer-term (up to 24 months) growth hormone (GH) replacement therapy using a dose titration regimen, on lipid and glucose metabolism in GH-deficient, hypopituitary adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11015169
Since the publication of the second set of guidelines by the National Cholesterol Education Program, a solid body of data from landmark clinical studies has demonstrated that reduction in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor ("statin") therapy sharply diminishes the risk for coronary artery disease. These trials include the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study, the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study, the Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study, the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events investigation, and the Long-Term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaemic Disease trial. Coronary event rates and, in some cases, all-cause mortality decreased significantly after about 5 years of statin therapy in patients at risk for and those who had coronary artery disease at baseline. In contrast, recent subgroup analyses of these pivotal studies have in the aggregate challenged the premise that lower LDL cholesterol levels necessarily lead to further declines in risk for coronary artery disease, particularly among the patients most likely to be seen by the clinician: those with moderately elevated or normal cholesterol profiles. Indeed, when LDL cholesterol levels are in this range, further lowering with statin therapy elicits diminishing returns in terms of coronary event rates. These findings are readily accommodated by the curvilinear, or log-linear, model between serum cholesterol level and risk for coronary artery disease, which is predicated on data from large epidemiologic studies. In light of the current climate involving competing health care costs, the pursuit of progressively diminishing returns in terms of reductions in coronary artery disease risk through more aggressive lowering of LDL cholesterol levels appears to be unwarranted. Until data are published from ongoing randomized, clinical trials that can more effectively resolve the clinical utility of aggressive lipid-lowering strategies to improve coronary event rates, a prudent, evidence-based strategy seems warranted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11016019
Simvastatin and atorvastatin are effective statins for treating hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11018193
The Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS) is a placebo-controlled multicenter study designed to assess the effect of 2-year treatment with pravastatin on the progression and regression of angiographically documented coronary artery disease. One of the secondary end points was the occurrence of 2-year restenosis in the percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) block. We randomly assigned eligible patients to receive pravastatin 40 mg once daily or placebo. The end point was the percent diameter stenosis of the target lesion at 24 months, as assessed by (semi)quantitative coronary angiography. Two hundred twenty-one patients underwent scheduled PTCA, which was considered successful in 201 patients. One hundred seventy-eight patients underwent angiographic restudy (89%). The patients in the pravastatin group (n = 109) and placebo group (n = 112) were similar at baseline. Percent diameter stenosis before angioplasty was 78 +/- 14% (mean +/- SD) in the pravastatin group and 80 +/- 14% in the placebo group (p = 0.46). At follow-up, the percent diameter stenosis was 32 +/- 23% in the pravastatin group and 45 +/- 29% in the placebo group (p < 0.001). Clinical restenosis was significantly lower in the pravastatin group (7%) compared with the placebo group (29%) (p < 0.001). Risk reduction for all events was 58%. We conclude that treatment with pravastatin reduces 2-year clinical and angiographic restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11018196
An extended-release (ER) formulation of fluvastatin 80 mg has been developed for once-daily treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia in patients who require fluvastatin dosages of > 40 mg/day. The study aimed to determine the efficacy and safety of the new formulation and to assess the dose response over the range of 40 to 160 mg/day. After a 4-week placebo/dietary run-in period, 123 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (Fredrickson type IIa/IIb) were randomized to receive fluvastatin 40, 80, or 160 mg/day for 6 weeks. The 40 mg/day dosage was administered as the marketed immediate-release (IR) capsule and the 80 mg/day dosage as 1 80-mg ER tablet. Patients receiving 160 mg/day were administered 80 mg/day (1 ER tablet) for the first 2 weeks, followed by 160 mg/day (2 ER tablets) for the remainder of the study. All doses were administered once daily at bedtime. The results showed a linear dose-response relation. Doubling the fluvastatin dosage resulted in a 6% greater mean percent reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (40 mg IR -29%; 80 mg ER -35%; 160 mg ER -41%). In the 160-mg ER group, 62% of patients achieved > or = 40% reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol compared with 32% and 10% of patients in the 80-mg ER and 40-mg IR groups, respectively. Dose ordering of the response was also observed for the other lipid parameters. Fluvastatin ER was well tolerated. Thus, the new ER formulation of fluvastatin was effective and well tolerated in the once-daily treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11018199
This retrospective observational intravascular ultrasound study evaluated whether simvastatin therapy limits lumen area reduction 1-year after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) by reducing reactive plaque growth, reducing reactive vasoconstriction, or both. This study showed that plaque growth is a general response 1 year after PTA regardless of the use of simvastatin; simvastatin has the potential to induce positive vascular remodeling, thereby reducing the occurrence of restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11023927
This long-term, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2 x 2 factorial, angiographic trial evaluated the effects of cholesterol lowering and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition on coronary atherosclerosis in normocholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11028504
Recent clinical trials have provided unequivocal evidence of major cardiovascular benefits from low density lipoprotein (LDL) lowering with statins. However, the three critical unresolved questions about aggressive LDL lowering are the shape of the curve relating cardiac events to LDL, the best surrogate measurement for assessing therapeutic efficacy and the best target for LDL therapy. The relation between cardiac events and LDL is curvilinear, both epidemiologically and during therapy. The benefit of lipid lowering diminishes progressively and becomes difficult to detect at lower LDL levels without a very large sample size. Assessment of the benefits of lipid lowering is further confounded by differences in the level of pretreatment LDL and by the non-LDL lowering effects of statins. Both epidemiologic studies and large randomized clinical trials have produced conflicting results concerning the best LDL target. Failure to reduce the event rate in patients with pretreatment LDL <125 mg (Cholesterol And Recurrent Events [CARE] trial) alerts us to the risk of extrapolating epidemiologic data to clinical practice, yet subset analysis of some clinical trials suggests the greatest benefit appears in those patients with the lowest on-treatment LDL levels (Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study [4S]). This controversy should be resolved in the next few years by several important on-going trials. In the face of seemingly contradictory data from current clinical trials, we can only speculate that very aggressive LDL lowering to <80 mg/dl could be accompanied by a modest therapeutic benefit beyond the current recommendations of the National Cholesterol Education Program. If any benefit is observed, it will have to be balanced against a small potential for increased adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11029845
To review the cytochrome P450 system and associated metabolic differences between the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11030197
In the treatment of hyperlipidemia, when to begin and end therapy is important. In recent years, potent anti-hyperlipidemia drugs have been widely used, and the results of many intervention trials have shown that combinations of diet, exercise and drug therapies are effective for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. The present paper summarizes these trials; introduces the therapy guidelines for adult hyperlipidemia established by Japan Atherosclerosis Society in 1997; and discusses the drugs for hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11030791
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11030795
Increasing evidence suggests that cholesterol plays a role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer disease (AD). For instance, an elevated serum cholesterol level has been shown to be a risk factor for AD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11031077
The incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) is greatly increased in overweight diabetic patients. Modification of dietary intake and weight loss improve hypercholesterolaemia. However, cholesterol goal levels are not achieved in several patients under this treatment. The aim of our study was to evaluate the effect of Cerivastatin, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. A population of 40 diabetic type 2 outpatients were analyzed in a prospective way. The mean+/-SD age was 60.7+/-11.6 years, with a diabetes duration of 8.5+/-6.6 years. All patients were treated with cerivastatin (0.2 mg once a day) for 6 months. Weight HbAlc fasting blood glucose, urine microalbuminuria, total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides were measured at the beginning of the study and again after 3 and 6 months of treatment with cerivastatin. An improvement in lipid levels was achieved, with a significant decrease in LDL-cholesterol (27.7%), total cholesterol (21.4%), triglycerides levels (10.4%) and a significant increase in HDL-cholesterol levels (8.3%) (P<0.05). Cardiovascular risk ratios such as; total cholesterol/HDL-cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol/HDL-cholesterol improved during treatment, decreasing 11.3% and 30%, respectively (P<0.05). Low incidence of side effects was demonstrated. In summary, cerivastatin improved lipid control in patients with type 2 diabetes, with a low incidence of side effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11031398
To describe and understand current care of simvastatin-treated patients with combined hyperlipidemia in routine clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11034934
Plasma triglyceride concentration has been an inconsistent independent risk factor for coronary heart disease, perhaps because of the metabolic heterogeneity among VLDL particles, the main carriers of triglycerides in plasma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11034935
Previous trials have had insufficient numbers of coronary events to address definitively the effect of lipid-modifying therapy on coronary heart disease in subgroups of patients with varying baseline characteristics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11036120
Chronic inflammation is believed to increase the risk of coronary events by making atherosclerotic plaques in coronary vessels prone to rupture. We examined blood constituents potentially affected by inflammation as predictors of risk in men with hypercholesterolemia who were enrolled in the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study, a trial that evaluated the value of pravastatin in the prevention of coronary events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11039939
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11039962
To summarise the effect of primary prevention with lipid lowering drugs on coronary heart disease events, coronary heart disease mortality, and all cause mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11041122
As the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) was conducted in Scotland, a country well-known for its high cardiovascular risk, the generalizability of its findings on pravastatin's clinical and economic effects has been questioned. This study examines the legitimacy of this concern, using Belgium as a case study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11044760
Screening for hyperlipidemia is a substantial cost burden, as is its treatment. The choice of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) and the dose level may have significant implications for both efficient and cost effective therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11044791
To assess the therapeutic value of treatment with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor in women with hypoestrogenic hyperlipidemia caused by menopause.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11050781
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11050782
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11053704
In the past, the relation between hypertriglyceridemia and coronary heart disease (CHD) has been uncertain. However, a recent multivariate analysis of 8-year follow-up data from the large-scale Prospective Cardiovascular Mnster study found hypertriglyceridemia to be an independent risk factor for major coronary events after controlling for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Hypertriglyceridemia combined with elevated LDL cholesterol and high LDL:HDL cholesterol ratio (>5) increased the CHD event risk by approximately sixfold. Similarly, a large meta-analysis of 17 prospective trials reported hypertriglyceridemia to be an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. In this study, an 88 mg/dl (1.0 mmol/L) increase in plasma triglyceride levels significantly increased the relative risk of cardiovascular disease by approximately 30% in men and 75% in women; the corresponding rates were somewhat lower (14% and 37%) but still statistically significant after adjustment for HDL cholesterol level. These data and observations from patients in the Helsinki Heart Study and the Stockholm Ischemic Heart study, that the greatest coronary benefit during lipid-lowering drug therapy occurred among hypertriglyceridemic patients, argue strongly for an independent role for hypertriglyceridemia in CHD risk. In the recent Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Intervention Trial, the use of gemfibrozil to raise HDL cholesterol levels and lower levels of triglycerides without lowering LDL cholesterol levels reduced coronary events in men with established CHD, whereas preliminary results from the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention Trial indicate a reduction in coronary end points in patients with elevated baseline triglyceride levels. To achieve the greatest possible reduction in CHD risk, antihyperlipidemic treatment strategies should also be aimed at reducing elevated triglycerides.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11054511
there is some evidence to indicate that statins may affect the function of immune and inflammatory cells. This study investigates the influence of short term treatment with simvastatin on plasma chemotactic activity and adherence of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11054628
Patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) are at an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity and thus are an excellent group in whom to evaluate the feasibility and the effect of an aggressive multifactorial intervention on atherosclerotic vascular disease risk factors. The Arterial Disease Multiple Intervention Trial (ADMIT) was designed to determine the efficacy, safety, and compliance of an multifactorial therapy on selected atherosclerotic disease risk factors in patients with PAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11056097
Postmenopausal estrogen use has been associated with reduced carotid atherosclerosis in observational studies, but this relationship has not been confirmed in a clinical trial. The impact of estrogen on atherosclerotic disease in other peripheral arteries is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11058714
Cholesterol lowering involving different therapies improves the clinical outcome of patients. To define the underlying pathomechanism, we studied whether treatment with statins was associated with changes in blood thrombogenicity, endothelial dysfunction and soluble adhesion molecule levels. Fifty hypercholesterolemic patients were treated with pravastatin (40 mg/day, n=24) or simvastatin (20 mg/day, n=26). Lipid profile and blood thrombogenicity were assessed in all patients before and after 3 months of cholesterol reducing therapy. Blood thrombogenicity was assessed as thrombus formation, perfusing non-anticoagulated blood directly from the patients' vein through the Badimon perfusion chamber (shear rate 1690/s). Endothelial-dependent vasomotor response was tested by laser-Doppler flowmeter. Soluble adhesion molecule level were measured by ELISA. Total and LDL cholesterol were reduced in the two treatment groups by statin therapy. Statin therapy was associated with a significant reduction in blood thrombogenicity and endothelium-dependent vasoresponse. No differences were observed between simvastatin or pravastatin treatment. Lipid lowering by statins had no effect on plasma levels of fibrinogen, sL-selectin, sP-selectin and sICAM-1 antigen. Cholesterol lowering by both statins reduced the increased blood reactivity and endothelial dysfunction present under hypercholesterolemia. The multiple effects of lipid lowering therapy by statins may explain the benefits observed in recent epidemiological trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11060668
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11060717
Repaglinide (NovoNorm((R))) is a novel oral antidiabetic agent, the first of a new class of insulin secretagogues known as the prandial glucose regulators to be approved for use in patients with Type 2 diabetes. Prandial glucose regulation is aimed at restoring the first-phase insulin response that follows consumption of a meal, which is missing in patients with Type 2 diabetes. After repaglinide administration, the resulting insulin profile reflects that of healthy individuals more closely, providing tighter glycaemic control and reducing the risk of hypoglycaemic events. Repaglinide is quickly absorbed and rapidly eliminated through biliary excretion, making it suitable for use in patients with renal impairment. It appears in the bloodstream within 15 to 30 min of dosing, stimulating short-term insulin release from the pancreatic beta-cells by binding to a unique site on the beta-cell membrane. Rapid elimination ensures that postprandial insulin levels quickly return to preprandial levels as the high prandial glucose level subsides. Repaglinide is given on a 'one meal, one tablet; no meal, no tablet' basis. It is particularly effective in patients who have not previously been treated with an oral antidiabetic agent, significantly reducing glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) levels by 1.6%. It also offers increased mealtime flexibility and safety, compared with other oral antidiabetic agents. As a result of the short plasma half-life and lack of accumulation of repaglinide with repeated dosing, the risk of between-meal and nocturnal hypoglycaemia is substantially reduced compared with other oral antidiabetic agents. Repaglinide acts synergistically with metformin, consistently improving glycaemic control in patients who were insufficiently controlled by metformin alone. Results from recent studies have shown similar synergistic effects with neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH)-insulin or troglitazone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11060827
An elevated level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol has been recognised as the most important risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD). Development of the inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) ('statins'), a rate-limiting key enzyme of cholesterol synthesis pathway, has revolutionised the cholesterol-lowering therapy. In the last decade, effective primary and secondary preventive measures have been established in several statin trials to prevent future events of CAD by lowering LDL-cholesterol levels. These results supported the 'lower is better' hypothesis in the relationship between LDL-cholesterol levels and CAD. NK-104 (pitavastatin, previously named as itavastatin or nisvastatin, Kowa Company Ltd., Tokyo) has recently been developed as a new chemically synthesised and powerful statin. On the basis of reported data, the potency of NK-104 is dose-dependent and appears to be equivalent to that of atorvastatin. This new statin is safe and well-tolerated in the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolaemia. The cytochrome P450 system only slightly modifies NK-104, which suggests the clinical advantage of this agent, because the prevalence of clinically significant interactions with a number of other commonly used drugs can be considered to be extremely low. NK-104 can provide a new and potentially superior therapeutic agent when compared with currently available other statins. Randomised controlled clinical trials to assess the long-term effects of this new statin on CAD would be required.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11060828
Colesevelam hydrochloride (formerly known as Cholestagel((R)) and re-named WelCholtrade mark, GelTex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sankyo Parke-Davis) is a new, polymeric, high potency, water-absorbing hydrogel. It has been shown to be a safe and effective cholesterol-lowering agent with a non-systemic mechanism of action, good tolerability and minimal side effects. To date, the lipid-lowering activity of colesevelam has been evaluated in approximately 1400 subjects. Colesevelam reduces low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels, in a dose-dependent manner, by as much as 20% (median) in patients with hypercholesterolaemia. Dosing regimen evaluations indicate that colesevelam is effective at both once per day and twice daily dosing and that concurrent administration of colesevelam with hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins), specifically lovastatin, does not alter the absorption of the statin. Combination therapy with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including lovastatin, simvastatin and atorvastatin, produces an additional reduction (8 - 16%) in LDL-cholesterol levels above that seen with the statin alone. The overall incidence of adverse effects with colesevelam alone and in combination with statins is comparable with that seen with placebo. Colesevelam lacks the constipating effect seen with typical bile acid sequestrants, a trait that would be expected to improve compliance with lipid-lowering therapy. Colesevelam, recently approved by the US FDA, represents a valuable non-absorbed alternative in the armamentarium against hypercholesterolaemia, both for monotherapy and combination therapy, as an adjunct to diet and exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11061279
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11061362
The study of genetic risk factors for multifactorial diseases is attracting increasing interest. In particular interest has been focused on the interaction between genetic polymorphisms and environmental factors in determining the risk of disease. Among environmental factors therapeutic approaches should be considered. Therapeutic responses to a given drug, failure of drug efficacy, interindividual variability in side effects and toxicity of drugs could be at least partially accounted for by genetic polymorphisms. This paper summarizes the presently available applications of genetic concepts to some drugs commonly used in patients with cardiovascular disease. Statins and probucol fail to lower cholesterol levels in carriers of specific polymorphisms. The progression of cardiovascular disease is decreased by pravastatin only when certain polymorphisms are present. Induction problems and bleeding complications of warfarin occur in subgroups of populations carrying specific genetic variants of key enzymes in the drug metabolism. A new interpretation of the results of a thrombosis prevention trial will be given in the light of a genetic approach to pharmacology; indeed, prevention and treatment of thrombotic disease could be better focused on the basis of this knowledge. Future clinical trials and cost-effectiveness evaluation of drugs should be conducted taking these gene-drug interactions into account.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11065222
Endothelial dysfunction represents the earliest stage of atherosclerosis and is usually present in hypercholesterolemia. Treatment with statins has been shown to normalize endothelial function in middle-aged men with hypercholesterolemia. We evaluated the effect over time of atorvastatin on the endothelial reactivity in postmenopausal hypercholesterolemic women (mean age, 58 +/- 6 years), receiving atorvastatin, 10 mg daily (n = 20) or American Heart Association step 1 diet (n = 10) for 8 weeks. Lipid profile and brachial artery flow-mediated vasodilation (FMV) were determined at baseline and after 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks. FMV increased progressively in subjects treated with atorvastatin, and the difference was significant (p < 0.05 vs. baseline) after the second week (baseline 3.8 +/- 3%; first week, 4.8 +/- 3%; second week, 9.2 +/- 3%; fourth week, 11.0 +/- 3%; eighth week, 11.7 +/- 3%). No significant changes were observed in subjects receiving diet (baseline, 3.1 +/- 4%; first week, 2.4 +/- 2%; second week, 2.9 +/- 2%; fourth week, 3.1 +/- 2%; eighth week, 3.3 +/- 2%; p = NS). In the atorvastatin group, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol showed a significant decrease since the first week (baseline, 228 +/- 37 mg/dl; first week, 171 +/- 32; second week, 147 +/- 27; fourth week, 139 +/- 29; eighth week, 135 +/- 27; all p < 0.05). In the control group, LDL cholesterol showed a smaller but significant (p < 0.05) reduction after the second week (baseline, 226 +/- 17 mg/dl; first week, 225 +/- 16; second week, 220 +/- 17; fourth week, 203 +/- 27; eighth week, 198 +/- 27). In conclusion, hypercholesterolemic women treated with atorvastatin show a significant improvement in endothelial reactivity after as early as 2 weeks of therapy. The extent to which these beneficial effects are attributable to cholesterol reduction or to a direct effect of the drug remains to be established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11067569
The 1993 National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines recommend cholesterol screening for elderly patients with and without known coronary heart disease. This review summarizes clinical trial evidence from the medical literature that addresses cholesterol treatment in the elderly.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11068074
More than 500,000 new medical articles are published every year and available time to keep updated is scarcer every day. Nowadays, the task of selecting useful, consistent, and relevant information for clinicians is a priority in many major medical journals. This review has the aim of gathering the results of the most important findings in clinical medicine in the last few years. It is focused on results from randomized clinical trials and well-designed observational research. Findings were included preferentially if they showed solid results, and we avoided as much as possible including only preliminary data, or results that included only non-clinical outcomes. Some of the most relevant findings reported here include the significant benefit of statins in patients with coronary artery disease even with mean cholesterol level. It also provides a substantial review of the most significant trials assessing the effectiveness of IIb/IIIa receptor blockers. In gastroenterology many advances have been made in the H. pylori eradication, and the finding that the cure of H. pylori infection may be followed by gastroesophageal reflux disease. Some new antivirals have shown encouraging results in patients with chronic hepatitis. In the infectious disease arena, the late breaking trials in anti-retroviral disease are discussed, as well as the new trends regarding antibiotic resistance. This review approaches also the role of leukotriene modifiers in the treatment of asthma and discusses the benefit of using methylprednisolone in patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome, among many other advances in internal medicine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11070567
Transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) are temporary focal cerebral or retinal deficits that resolve within 24 hours. Attention should be given to the tempo and localisation of the clinical syndrome, as multiple and hemispheric TIAs are associated with the greatest incidence of early stroke. Evaluation of TIAs depends on the clinical symptoms, physical examination and investigations. Attention should be given to clinical evidence of generalised atherosclerotic disease, as death due to the complications of ischaemic heart disease is the commonest outcome in patients with TIA. Early attention should focus on risk factor modification, with emphasis on the treatment of hypertension and smoking cessation. Antiplatelet therapy should be instituted. Aspirin is the first-line treatment but, if not tolerated, clopidogrel is effective in preventing vascular complications. Anticoagulants are generally reserved for patients with atrial fibrillation and are associated with a significant reduction of stroke risk. The use of statins is becoming more widespread, with emerging evidence of their efficacy in reducing stroke risk. The risk of stroke is greatest in the weeks following TIA and patients should be referred for carotid duplex ultrasonography. Carotid endarterectomy for symptomatic internal carotid artery high grade stenosis virtually abolishes stroke risk in that vascular territory over subsequent years. TIAs should be regarded as an emergency requiring early diagnosis and prompt referral.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11070569
Coronary heart disease is the major cause of death in the industrialised world. As the prevalence increases with advancing age, coronary heart disease will be a growing problem as the average age of the population increases. The cost of treatment following an acute coronary syndrome is considerable and there is a substantial risk of further episodes. However, there is much evidence that the disease is a dynamic and reversible process and further episodes are preventable. Numerous trials have shown the efficacy of statins in coronary heart disease. The most recent studies have shown efficacy in secondary prevention when statin therapy was started early (hours/days) after an acute episode. Although guidelines recommend that statin therapy should be initiated following an acute coronary syndrome, prescription rates seem to be static at around 40%. A number of measures need to be taken to improve the situation. Firstly, each hospital and coronary care unit should implement a clearly defined protocol delineating patient management following hospital admission. Provision of comprehensive discharge information should be a key feature of this communication. Secondly, regular audit of prescribing habits is essential to assess the situation. Finally, patient adherence to their regimen should be improved by collaborative involvement of doctor and patient in planning and implementing the treatment regimen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11073755
Dyslipidemia is a prevalent condition that affects patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) who are receiving antiretroviral therapy. These preliminary recommendations summarize the current understanding in this area and propose guidelines for management. Existing guidelines for the management of dyslipidemia in the general population formed the general basis for our recommendations. Data on the prevalence and treatment of dyslipidemia of HIV-infected patients, implications of treatment-related dyslipidemia in other chronically ill populations, and pharmacokinetic profiles for the available hypolipidemic agents in non-HIV populations were considered. Although the implications of dyslipidemia in this population are not fully known, the frequency, type, and magnitude of lipid alterations in HIV-infected people are expected to result in increased cardiovascular morbidity. We propose that these patients undergo evaluation and treatment on the basis of existing guidelines for dyslipidemia, with the caveat that avoidance of interactions with antiretroviral agents is paramount.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11074745
There is controversial evidence that a low serum cholesterol level is associated with an increased risk of depression, suicide, and violence. The aim of this study was to identify or exclude any small or infrequent adverse effect of long-term reduction of serum cholesterol with pravastatin sodium on psychological well-being.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11075313
Potential for inhibition of CYP3A activity by simvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, was evaluated in 12 healthy male subjects who received placebo or 80 mg of simvastatin, the maximal recommended dose, once daily for 7 consecutive days. On day 7, an intravenous injection of 3 microCi [14C N-methyl]erythromycin for the erythromycin breath test (EBT) was coadministered with a 2 mg oral solution of midazolam. The values for percent 14C exhaled during the first hour (for EBT) and the pharmacokinetic parameters of midazolam (AUC, Cmax, t1/2) were not affected following multiple once-daily oral doses of simvastatin 80 mg. The 95% confidence interval was 0.97 to 1.18 for EBT and 0.99 to 1.23 for midazolam AUC. In addition, the total urinary recoveries of midazolam and its 1'-hydroxy metabolites (free plus conjugate) obtained from both treatments were not statistically different (p > 0.200). These data demonstrate that multiple dosing of simvastatin, at the highest recommended clinical dose, does not significantly alter the in vivo hepatic or intestinal CYP3A4/5 activity as measured by the commonly used EBT and oral midazolam probes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11075741
To determine the relative efficacy and safety of cerivastatin and pravastatin in patients with type II hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11077897
Statins are highly effective in reducing the risk of sudden cardiac death and other acute coronary events in patients with pre-existing ischaemic heart disease or with raised blood cholesterol levels. However, relatively little is known about how statins are used in primary care. The objectives of this study were to investigate age, sex and inter-practice variations in the prescribing of statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11078228
Thrombomodulin is an endothelial glycoprotein that decreases thrombin activity and activates protein C. A recent study has shown that G-33A promoter mutation of the thrombomodulin gene occurs particularly in Asians. In this study, we analyzed the distribution of G-33A mutation in the promoter region of the thrombomodulin gene in the Chinese population and determined whether the mutation might be a risk for coronary artery disease (CAD). In addition, the influence of this mutation on plasma soluble thrombomodulin levels in patients with CAD was also examined. We studied 320 consecutive patients (mean age 63 years; 73% men) with CAD and 200 age- and sex-matched control subjects. Screening for thrombomodulin G-33A promoter mutation was conducted using polymerase chain reaction, single-strand conformation polymorphism, and direct deoxyribonucleic acid sequencing. The frequency of the G-33A mutation (GA+AA genotypes) was significantly higher in the CAD group (23.8% vs 15.5%, odds ratio [OR] 1.70, p = 0.031). Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that the mutation was an independent risk factor (OR 1.81, p = 0.016) for CAD, as was hypertension (OR 1.44, p = 0.040), diabetes mellitus (OR 2.50, p <0.001), and smoking (OR 2.15, p <0.001). In CAD patients with GG genotype, the soluble thrombomodulin level increased with the extent of CAD (36 +/- 15 vs 47 +/- 18 vs 55 +/- 36 ng/ml in 1-, 2-, or 3-vessel CAD, p <0.001). However, in CAD patients with G-33A mutation, there was no difference between the levels of soluble thrombomodulin (39 +/- 17 vs 37 +/- 15 vs 42 +/- 18 ng/ml, p = NS) in 1-, 2-, or 3-vessel CAD. Our observations suggest that there is a significant association of the G-33A mutation in thrombomodulin gene with CAD, and this mutation may influence the soluble thrombomodulin levels in patients with CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11078229
Primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty has become the preferred reperfusion strategy for acute myocardial infarction in most institutions with interventional facilities and experienced operators. The benefit of establishing coronary reperfusion, with or without pharmacologic therapy, before primary angioplasty has not been established. Consecutive patients (n = 1,490) with acute myocardial infarction treated with aspirin and heparin followed by primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were followed for 13 years. Follow-up angiography was obtained in 737 patients at 7.7 months. Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 2 to 3 flow in the infarct artery at initial angiography was present in 18.3% of patients, and TIMI 0 to 1 flow in 81.7% of patients. Baseline variables were similar between the 2 groups, except patients with initial TIMI 2 to 3 flow had significantly less cardiogenic shock (1.7% vs 9.4%, p <0.0001) and a lower incidence of depressed ejection fraction <40% (12.6% vs 19.9%, p = 0.007). Procedural success was better in patients with initial TIMI 2 to 3 flow (97.4% vs 93.8%, p = 0.02), and catheterization laboratory events were less frequent. Patients with initial TIMI 2 to 3 flow had lower peak creatine kinase values (1,328 vs 2,790 IU/L, p <0.0001), higher acute ejection fraction (54.3% vs 51.6%, p = 0.05), higher late ejection fraction (59.2% vs 54.9%, p = 0.004), and lower 30-day mortality (4.8% vs 8.9%, p = 0.02). These data indicate that when reperfusion occurs before primary angioplasty, outcomes are strikingly better with less cardiogenic shock, improved procedural outcomes, smaller infarct size, better preservation of left ventricular function, and reduced mortality. This should encourage new strategies to establish reperfusion before "primary" angioplasty with "catheterization laboratory friendly" platelet inhibitors and/or low-dose thrombolytic drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11078237
This double-blind study was designed to assess the efficacy and safety of fluvastatin-fenofibrate combination therapy compared with fenofibrate monotherapy in severe primary hypercholesterolemia (low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol > or =190 mg/dl [4.9 mmol/L], triglycerides < or =350mg/dl [3.9 mmol/l]). After a 10-week placebo and dietary baseline period, 102 patients were randomized to receive micronized fenofibrate 200 mg, fluvastatin 20 mg plus micronized fenofibrate 200 mg, or fluvastatin 40 mg plus micronized fenofibrate 200 mg. At week 16, fenofibrate 200 mg alone lowered LDL cholesterol from baseline by 21% compared with 32% for fluvastatin 20 mg plus fenofibrate 200 mg and 41% for fluvastatin 40 mg plus fenofibrate 200 mg (p <0.001). Triglycerides decreased by 29% with fenofibrate 200 mg alone, 39% with fluvastatin 20 mg plus fenofibrate 200 mg, and 40% with fluvastatin 40 mg plus fenofibrate 200 mg (p <0.05). Safety was assessed by recording adverse events and measuring clinical laboratory parameters. The adverse event profile was similar for the 3 treatment groups. One patient withdrew due to an increase in transaminase levels. No significant increase in creatine phosphokinase levels was observed with combination therapy. In conclusion, the addition of fluvastatin to micronized fenofibrate results in substantial improvement in atherogenic plasma lipids and is well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11078282
Recent clinical trials in patients with coronary heart disease indicate, for the very first time, that increasing low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol significantly reduces the cumulative occurrence of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events in patients whose only lipid abnormality was low HDL with normal levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides. These data provide a compelling scientific basis for a more targeted and segmental approach to managing patients with dyslipidemia, where decreasing elevated levels of LDL cholesterol and increasing low levels of HDL cholesterol should comprise dual targets of pharmacotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11078305
Plasma fibrinogen and hemorheologic-hemostatic factors contribute to dyslipidemia-induced morbidity. Some of these parameters can be favorably affected when abnormal serum lipoprotein levels are corrected. Thus, we investigated whether treatment with atorvastatin would result in changes in plasma viscosity and other hemorheologic and hemostatic parameters. Twenty-two hyperlipidemic men at a university lipid clinic were treated single-blinded with atorvastatin 80 mg/day for 12 weeks to determine hemostatic-hemorheologic parameters including blood viscosity, fibrinogen levels, whole blood platelet aggregation, tissue plasminogen activator antigen, hematocrit, plasminogen activator inhibitor activity, factor VII activity, red blood cell (RBC) deformity and lipid ratio, sedimentation rate, and fasting serum lipoprotein levels. Atorvastatin treatment provided significant lowering of serum lipoprotein levels: low-density lipoprotein -53% (p = 0.0001), very low density lipoprotein -43% (p = 0.0001), and triglycerides -35% (p < 0.0001). These effects were accompanied by changes in plasma viscosity -10% (p = 0.0007), arachidonic acid-induced whole blood platelet aggregation -11% (p = 0.006), factor VII -8% (p = 0.001), RBC lipid composition +5% (p = 0.0003), and RBC sedimentation -33% (p = 0.0002). Plasma fibrinogen levels were not affected. Thus, atorvastatin 80 mg/day produced marked reductions in serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-53%), very low density lipoprotein cholesterol (-43%), and triglycerides levels (-35%), and significant changes in plasma viscosity as well as other hemorheologic-hemostatic parameters, but no changes in plasma fibrinogen levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11079660
We sought to examine the association of apolipoprotein (apo) E genotypes with baseline plasma lipid levels and severity of coronary artery disease (CAD), as well as the response to treatment with fluvastatin in the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11086336
The prevention and treatment of coronary heart disease is a major challenge in the overall management of the patient with type 2 diabetes. Diabetic dyslipidaemia is an important risk factor and is open to therapeutic intervention. However, as yet there are no primary or secondary coronary heart disease prevention trials of lipid-lowering therapy reported in diabetic populations. In this review, on-going clinical trials of lipid-lowering therapy in specific diabetic populations will be described.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11088079
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11089820
Dementia affects an estimated 10% of the population older than 65 years. Because vascular and lipid-related mechanisms are thought to have a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia, we did an epidemiological study of the potential effect of HMGCoA (3 hydroxy-3methylglutaryl-coenzyme A) reductase inhibitors (statins) and other lipid-lowering agents on dementia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11090787
This cost-consequences analysis of the Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study compares the costs of lovastatin treatment with the costs of cardiovascular hospitalizations and procedures. The cost of lovastatin treatment was defined as the average retail price and the cost of drug safety monitoring and adverse experiences. Costs were determined by actual rates of hospitalizations and procedures. Within a trial, lovastatin treatment cost approximately $4,654/patient. Lovastatin treatment significantly reduced the cumulative rate of cardiovascular hospitalizations and procedures (p = 0.002). Over the duration of the study, the cumulative number of cardiovascular hospitalizations and related therapeutic procedures was significantly reduced by 29%. The time to first cardiovascular-related hospitalization or procedure was significantly extended by lovastatin (p = 0.002). Lovastatin reduced the frequency of cardiovascular hospitalization (28%), and cardiovascular therapeutic (32%) and diagnostic procedures (23%). Among therapeutic procedures, treatment reduced coronary artery bypass graft surgery by 19% and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty by 37%. Total cardiovascular-related hospital days were reduced by 26% (p = 0.025). The between-group offset in direct medical costs was $524, which resulted in a 11% cost offset of lovastatin therapy over the mean study duration of 5.2 years. Lovastatin provides meaningful reductions in cardiovascular-related resource utilization and reductions in direct cardiovascular-related costs associated with the onset of coronary disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11090801
Statin drug treatment has still not achieved complete acceptance, and titration to recommended target goals is still not used by physicians in Norway.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11092112
Unstable angina is a life-threatening disease. The overall incidence is estimated to be between 0.1 and 0.2% and, of those admitted to hospital, up to 5% die within the first six weeks. With such a high prevalence and poor prognosis, there is still a clear need for improved secondary preventive treatment. Several landmark statin trials (CARE, LIPID and 4-S) have now shown the benefits of lowering cholesterol, starting months after an acute coronary event, and several smaller studies (such as L-CAD, PTT and RECIFE) have demonstrated the clinical benefits of very early statin treatment. Recent research suggests the underlying cause of the disease, atherosclerosis, is a dynamic and potentially reversible process. Statins may tip this balance in favour of resolution by cholesterol lowering and through pleiotropic effects independent of lipid lowering. Pravastatin, when given very early in the clinical course, has already been shown to improve both plaque stability and endothelial function, as well as clinical outcome, suggesting it as the drug of choice in early secondary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11092643
The joint predictive value of lipid and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, as well as a possible interaction between statin therapy and CRP, were evaluated for survival after angiographic diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11092646
The goal of our study was to determine whether hormone therapy alters markers of inflammation in postmenopausal women with chronic stable coronary artery disease (CAD) on appropriate medical management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11095163
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11104736
Recent clinical trials have established that inhibitors of the enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (statins) reduce the risk of acute coronary events. These effects of statins cannot be fully explained by their lipid-lowering potential. Improved endothelial function may contribute to the positive effects of statin treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11108325
Recent research has demonstrated that successful simultaneous treatment of multiple risk factors including cholesterol, triglycerides, homocysteine, lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)], fibrinogen, antioxidants, endothelial dysfunction, inflammation, infection, and dietary factors can lead to the regression of coronary artery disease and the recovery of viable myocardium. However, preliminary work revealed that a number of individuals enrolled in the original study went on popular high-protein diets in an effort to lose weight. Despite increasing numbers of individuals following high-protein diets, little or no information is currently available regarding the effect of these diets on coronary artery disease and coronary blood flow. Twenty-six people were studied for 1 year by using myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI), echocardiography (ECHO), and serial blood work to evaluate the extent of changes in regional coronary blood flow, regional wall motion abnormalities, and several independent variables known to be important in the development and progression of coronary artery disease. Treatment was based on homocysteine, Lp (a), C-reactive protein (C-RP), triglycerides, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and fibrinogen levels. Each variable was independently treated as previously reported. MPI and ECHO were performed at the beginning and end of the study for each individual. The 16 people (treatment group/TG) studied modified their dietary intake as instructed. Ten additional individuals elected a different dietary regimen consisting of a "high-protein" (high protein group/HPG) diet, which they believed would "improve" their overall health. Patients in the TG demonstrated a reduction in each of the independent variables studied with regression in both the extent and severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) as quantitatively measured by MPI. Recovery of viable myocardium was seen in 43.75% of myocardial segments in these patients, documented with both MPI and ECHO evaluations. Individuals in the HPG showed worsening of their independent variables. Most notably, fibrinogen, Lp (a), and C-RP increased by an average of 14%, 106%, and 61% respectively. Progression of the extent and severity of CAD was documented in each of the vascular territories with an overall cumulative progression of 39.7%. The differences between progression and extension of disease in the HPG and the regression of disease in the TG were statistically (p<0.001) significant. Patients following recommended treatment for each of the independent variables were able to regress both the extent and severity of their coronary artery disease (CAD), as well as improve their myocardial wall motion (function) while following the prescribed medical and dietary guidelines. However, individuals receiving the same medical treatment but following a high-protein diet showed a worsening of independent risk factors, in addition to progression of CAD. These results would suggest that high-protein diets may precipitate progression of CAI) through increases in lipid deposition and inflammatory and coagulation pathways.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11108410
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11110349
The purpose of this paper is to provide information concerning the treatment of hyperlipidemia in African Americans. There is a similar prevalence of hypercholesterolemia in Blacks and Whites, but Blacks have been neglected in most pharmacological studies of hyperlipidemia. Intimal atherosclerotic involvement of the aorta and coronary artery occurs in young Black and White males. Epidemiological studies suggest there is a higher mortality rate due to coronary disease in Blacks vs Whites in the United States. Thirty-four percent of Blacks require a fasting lipid profile and 9% of Black adults aged 20 years or older would require lipid-lowering therapy. However, fewer Blacks (26%) than Whites (47%) are aware of their hypercholesterolemia. Studies with lovastatin and pravastatin show efficacy in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. The Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) is designed to determine all-cause mortality for subjects receiving pravastatin vs a control group receiving "usual care." Randomized, blinded, prospective trials are needed to assess the impact of hyperlipidemia as a risk factor, and the impact of its reduction in African Americans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11110741
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11111097
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11111822
Membrane differential filtration (MDF) (1,2) is a variety of cascade filtration. Three patients with primary hyperlipoproteinemia and coronary heart disease (2 patients with foregoing myocardial infarction) were treated with MDF for a period of 14 years. The mean treatment interval was 21 days. The basic level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol was about 450 mg/dl, and the level on LDL apheresis with comedication of statins was 180 to 200 mg/dl before treatment. Atherosclerosis progressed slowly during this period, and myocardial infarctions were avoided. However, in all 3 patients angiologic interventions became necessary. MDF is a well tolerated method that can be conducted without allergic hazards. The clinical results compare with those of other apheretic techniques.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11113401
Secondary prevention of coronary heart disease by antilipidemic therapy beginning at > or =3 months after an acute coronary syndrome is well documented. The impact, however, of immediate initiation of antilipidemic therapy on coronary stenoses and clinical outcome in patients with acute coronary syndrome is unknown. In our study, patients were randomized, on average, 6 days after an acute myocardial infarction and/or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty secondary to unstable angina, to pravastatin (combined, when necessary, with cholestyramine and/or nicotinic acid) to achieve low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels of < or =130 mg/dl (group A, n = 70). In controls (group B, n = 56), antilipidemic therapy was determined by family physicians. Quantitative coronary angiography was performed at inclusion, and at 6- and 24-month follow-up. The combined clinical end points were total mortality, cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, need for coronary intervention, stroke, and new onset of peripheral vascular disease. Minimal lumen diameter in group A increased by 0.05 +/- 0.20 mm after 6 months and 0.13 +/- 0.29 mm after 24 months, whereas it decreased by 0.08 +/- 0.20 mm and 0.18 +/- 0.27 mm, respectively, in group B (p = 0.004 at 6 months and p <0.001 at 24 months). After 2 years, 29 patients of 56 patients in group B, but only 16 of 70 patients in group A, experienced a clinical end point (p = 0.005; odds ratio 0.28, confidence intervals 0.13 to 0.6). We conclude that pravastatin-based therapy initiated immediately after an acute coronary syndrome is well tolerated and safe, lessens coronary atherosclerosis, and has a pronounced clinical benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11114960
Experimental evidence indicates that statins might have direct vascular effects independently from low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reduction and we reported that the reduction in urinary albumin excretion rate during Simvastatin treatment in type 2 diabetic patients was not correlated with LDL-cholesterol decrease. However in humans there are no data regarding possible additional effects of Simvastatin on blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion beyond its capacity to lower serum cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11115225
Hyperlipidemia and the atherosclerotic conditions that result from it are well recognized as major contributors to coronary heart disease (CHD). Fortunately, several large-scale clinical trials have shown that there are effective treatments that can substantially lower atherogenic lipid levels and thereby reduce the risk of CHD mortality and morbidity. However, duplication of these dramatic trial results can be negatively affected in "real life" clinical practice by an important issue: compliance. No medications will work if patients do not take them. Unfortunately, patients who need lipid-lowering therapy are likely to need it long-term, perhaps for a lifetime. Yet, many do not adhere to the prescribed medication regimen. This article reviews some major studies of compliance for lipid-lowering drugs. The reasons why patients do not take them as prescribed vary: poor education, lack of understanding, cost, provider indifference, and others. Achieving compliance requires a multifaceted approach. It can be enhanced by encouraging patients to talk openly about their medication habits and by convincing them of the long-term benefits of reaching and maintaining target low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Although more studies focusing on compliance specifically regarding CHD are needed, the current literature does provide some guidance. Arch Fam Med. 2000;9:1169-1175

Abstract for pubmed ID 11121593
Clinical trials of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy have demonstrated improvement in coronary atherosclerosis progression and reduction in risk of cardiovascular events. However, improvement in cardiovascular end-points is incompletely explained by the baseline or treated LDL cholesterol level. The beneficial effects of statins on clinical events may involve nonlipid mechanisms that modify hemostasis. Local activation of platelets and thrombus formation adjacent to atheromatous plaques, especially where ruptured or eroded, are now recognized to be of pathophysiological importance in the acute and chronic clinical expression of coronary heart disease. Thus, favorable effects of statins on hemostasis may be relevant to decreasing or delaying the progression and clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11122685
Traditional treatment of atherosclerotic coronary heart disease by cardiovascular specialists, which has focused on "critical" stenoses, may be less effective in reducing morbidity and mortality than therapies that stabilize plaques and reduce thrombosis and sudden death. Recent data from clinical trials of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy and modification of dietary fat composition demonstrate that both these approaches can reduce clinical events. Although revascularization therapy is effective in reducing angina caused by high-grade stenotic lesions, this therapy is incomplete because the more-numerous "smaller" plaques that typically cause clinical events remain untreated. Two recent trials suggest that statin therapy may have benefits on stabilizing plaques in high-risk patients within a year. Additional benefit may also be provided by increasing dietary consumption of monounsaturated or omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. Both statin therapy and diets high in monounsaturated or omega-3 fatty acids appear to improve morbidity and mortality by modifying the underlying atherothrombotic disease process.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11122690
Atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases are the most common causes of death in the United States. Fibrous plaques develop in 77% to 78% of men before age 30. The mean low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) level in men aged 25 to 30 years is 117 mg/dL. In the Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study, lovastatin therapy was associated with a 40% reduction in risk of fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction. The reduction in risk of myocardial infarction was independent of baseline LDL-C level with baseline LDL-C levels as low as 125 mg/dL. The National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines should be simplified by recommending that LDL-C levels be less than 100 mg/dL in all adults in the United States.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11122719
Two recently published clinical endpoint trials, Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program High-density Lipoprotein Intervention Trial (VA-HIT) and Atorvastatin Versus Revascularization Treatment (AVERT), studied lipid populations and clinical subgroups not previously evaluated in prior trials. VA-HIT, which used gemfibrozil, resurrected the potential benefits of fibrates in atherosclerotic subjects after previous trials either showed nonsignificant reductions in coronary artery disease (CAD) events or raised questions regarding non-CAD events. This study also raised intriguing questions about mechanisms and reinvigorated the triglyceride-atherothrombotic debate. The latest statin trial, AVERT, helped move the potential use of statins in two directions, addressing whether more LDL-cholesterol reduction is better, and whether lipid lowering offers an alternative to revascularization in certain subgroups. Finally, the design or initiation of a number of innovative and potentially landmark statin, fibrate, or combination studies has been published, or their results made public. The focus is on current gaps in our knowledge as we move toward evidence-based medicine. These include primary and secondary prevention of CAD in the elderly, primary prevention of CAD in persons with diabetes, and primary prevention of stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11122746
The advent of statin therapy has revolutionized the ability of the clinician to manage patients at risk for the development of an ischemic event due to dyslipidemia. Large-scale clinical trials involving thousands of patients in both primary and secondary prevention have clearly demonstrated that statin therapy will reduce cardiovascular mortality across a broad spectrum of patient subgroups. Additionally, in adequately powered trials, total mortality has been successfully decreased by the use of statin therapy. However, the precise mechanism underlying the benefit of statin therapy has been controversial due to the multiplicity of potential benefits that statins have demonstrated in addition to pure lipid lowering. The causal theory of pharmacologic benefit reiterates the lipid hypothesis, which states that dyslipidemia is central to the process of atherosclerosis and the clinical benefit which accrues from statin therapy is a function of the degree of lipid lowering. The noncausal theory supports the premise that clinical benefits are related primarily to pleiotropic effects of statins (endothelial function, inflammation, coagulation and plaque vulnerability) as being the major modulators of clinical benefit. This review will focus on the potential beneficial effects of statin therapy on a number of the pleiotropic effects of statins and the potential role that these activities play in the reduction of risk for ischemic events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11122756
Medical therapy reduces myocardial infarction and death in patients with stable coronary heart disease (CHD). In contrast, there is little evidence available to evaluate the impact of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) on hard endpoints in such patients. Four randomized, controlled trials have compared PCI with medical therapy. These studies have demonstrated that PCI results in an improvement in angina and exercise tolerance compared with medical therapy, but they also suggest that medical therapy may be preferable to PCI with respect to the risk of cardiac events. Interpretation of these studies has been limited by small sample size, exclusion of high-risk subjects, no or reduced use of stents, lack of a cost- effectiveness evaluation, and absence of risk factor intervention (except for Atorvastatin versus Revascularization Treatment, which used aggressive low-density lipoprotein lowering with atorvastatin in the medical group only). The Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive Drug Evaluation (COURAGE) trial will permit better definition of the role of PCI in the treatment of stable or recently stabilized patients with CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11123452
Thirty patients completed this open-label, multicenter prospective study performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of terbinafine treatment of onychomycosis of the feet in elderly patients. Inclusion criteria included an age of 60 years or older, a diagnosis of onychomycosis confirmed by positive potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparation at baseline, and toenails capable of regrowth. Patients were excluded from the study if they had received any systemic antifungal therapy within the previous 3 months or topical antifungal therapy within 1 week prior to the start of the study; had psoriasis; had toenail abnormalities interfering with normal toenail appearance; were immunosuppressed or immunodeficient; or had serum hepatic enzyme (serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase, SGOT; serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase, SGPT) values greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal at baseline. Following baseline evaluations, eligible patients received a 12-week supply of oral terbinafine (250 mg/day) for self-administration. Compliance was assessed by tablet counts at each visit and defined as the use of at least 80% of the medication prescribed at the first two visits. Follow-up evaluations were conducted for the next 60 weeks, for a total study period of 72 weeks. These visits occurred at weeks 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 72. All follow-up visits included: (i) the reporting of adverse effects; (ii) assessment of efficacy by KOH preparation, mycologic culture, and investigator evaluation; and (iii) physician and patient global assessments of various quality of life parameters (except for the visit at week 36). Safety and tolerance were assessed by physical examination at baseline and week 12, by laboratory evaluations (hematology, blood chemistry, and urinalysis) at baseline, week 6 and week 12, and by reporting and evaluation of adverse events throughout the entire study. Investigators assessed the extent of involvement of the target toenail and recorded global assessments of therapeutic efficacy at all visits. Mycologic evaluation was conducted by KOH preparation and a mycologic culture of the target toenail. Because of discrepancies in KOH results between the investigator sites and the central laboratory in early analyses, we chose to use the mycologic culture results to evaluate efficacy. Because all 30 subjects were treated with terbinafine, the entire group was considered for safety evaluation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11123842
Five years ago, many critics questioned the value of lipid-lowering therapy. Today, the clinical benefits of statins are well documented, but the challenge remains to fully implement these benefits across the wide spectrum of the at-risk population, and continue to advance our understanding regarding the potential for the benefits of statins across an even broader range of select patient populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11123843
The need for greater reductions in LDL cholesterol, although remaining to be proven as clinically beneficial, continues to drive the development of either higher doses of currently approved and marketed statins or the development of new, more effective agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11123844
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes. Among the many factors that are involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in diabetic patients, dyslipidemia plays a major role. It is characterized by an increase in triglycerides, a decrease in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and normal or mildly elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. The management of patients with diabetic dyslipidemia is difficult because we lack studies specifically designed for diabetic patients. Thus, strategy has to rely on post hoc analyses of landmark intervention trials, which usually include only a small number of diabetic patients, or on rare trials enrolling small cohorts of diabetic patients. When lifestyle changes fail, monotherapy should be tried first with either a statin or a fibrate, depending on triglyceride level. If lipid target values are not reached, a combination therapy can then be initiated, with close follow-up of potential side effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11123846
Clinical trials have shown that 3-hydoxy-3- methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, known as statins, significantly reduce the risk of both primary and secondary coronary heart disease events. Although these trials have included few women, the evidence suggests that statins are as effective in women as in men. The addition of hormone replacement therapy to statin therapy augments lowering of low- density lipoprotein cholesterol, but may not increase the favorable effects on clinical events achieved with statins alone. Finally, new data suggest that statins may also reduce the risk of osteoporotic fractures, a provocative finding still in need of verification by clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11126839
The population of older individuals in the United States is growing rapidly. Because women generally live longer than men and make up the majority of this aging population, the elucidation of health issues related to older women is important. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death and disability for women and claims the lives of more women than the next 14 causes combined. The majority of these deaths are due to atherosclerotic coronary heart disease, with nearly 250,000 women dying of myocardial infarction each year. There is evidence that women with suspected or established cardiovascular disease have not benefited fully from recent advances in the detection and management of coronary heart disease. Regardless of the mechanism and extent of the effect that sex differences have on approaches to cardiovascular disease, women appear to benefit from proven efficacious therapies, and the longer-term outcomes associated with these treatments are positive. The data regarding women and coronary heart disease are rapidly evolving and sometimes conflicting. The intent of this article is to summarize the most current understanding of coronary heart disease risks in women, highlighting the impact of prevention, and to discuss the latest novel findings that may become important in our armamentarium for prevention of coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11127936
Hypolipidaemic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (statin) treatment reduces cardiovascular risk and is also associated with the reduction of C-reactive protein (CRP) concentrations. However, there is scant data concerning the relationship between CRP and lipid changes during statin treatment. We studied 60 hypercholesterolaemic coronary patients who participated in the Treat to Target (3T) study comparing atorvastatin and simvastatin. Serum lipids and CRP (with a sensitive method) were measured before treatment at baseline and after 12 months of statin treatment. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol was substantially decreased and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol increased during statin treatment. CRP decreased significantly (sign test P = 0.03) during treatment, and the changes of CRP were significantly associated with changes in HDL cholesterol (r = -0.45; P < 0.001) and apolipoprotein A1 (r = -0.40; P < 0.001) but not with changes in LDL cholesterol or triglycerides. The change in HDL cholesterol explained 20% of the change in CRP during statin treatment. The results are in line with previous suggestions that HDL has anti-inflammatory properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11128187
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11128243
The authors have developed a simple, rapid HPLC assay with ultraviolet (UV) detection for the analytical determination of lovastatin and its acid in human plasma for a concentration range of 100-5,000 ng/mL. Sample clean-up involved the use of C10 solid-phase extraction cartridges. Our limit of quantitation was 100 ng/mL. Standard curves were linear from 100 to 5,000 ng/mL, with a correlation coefficient (r2) of 0.999 +/- 0.0002. Stored samples were stable at -70 degrees C for up to 4 months prior to reversed-phase HPLC analysis. This assay was able to measure steady-state lovastatin concentration (Css) at the initial dose level in a phase I trial of lovastatin as a modulator of apoptosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11129127
Cerivastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor used for the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolaemia. The lipid-lowering efficacy of cerivastatin has been demonstrated in a number of large multicentre, randomised clinical trials. Earlier studies used cerivastatin at relatively low dosages of < or =0.3mg orally once daily, but more recent studies have focused on dosages of 0.4 or 0.8 mg/day currently recommended by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Along with modest improvements in serum levels of triglycerides and high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol, cerivastatin 0.4 to 0.8 mg/day achieved marked reductions in serum levels of low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (33.4 to 44.0%) and total cholesterol (23.0 to 30.8%). These ranges included results of a pivotal North American trial in almost 1000 patients with hypercholesterolaemia. In this 8-week study, US National Cholesterol Education Program (Adult Treatment Panel II) [NCEP] target levels for LDL-cholesterol were achieved in 84% of patients randomised to receive cerivastatin 0.8 mg/day, 73% of those treated with cerivastatin 0.4 mg/day and <10% of placebo recipients. Among patients with baseline serum LDL-cholesterol levels meeting NCEP guidelines for starting pharmacotherapy, 75% achieved target LDL-cholesterol levels with cerivastatin 0.8 mg/day. In 90% of all patients receiving cerivastatin 0.8 mg/day, LDL-cholesterol levels were reduced by 23.9 to 58.4% (6th to 95th percentile). Various subanalyses of clinical trials with cerivastatin indicate that the greatest lipid-lowering response can be expected in women and elderly patients. Cerivastatin is generally well tolerated and adverse events have usually been mild and transient. The overall incidence and nature of adverse events reported with cerivastatin in clinical trials was similar to that of placebo. The most frequent adverse events associated with cerivastatin were headache, GI disturbances, asthenia, pharyngitis and rhinitis. In the large pivotal trial, significant elevations in serum levels of creatine kinase and transaminases were reported in a small proportion of patients receiving cerivastatin but not in placebo recipients. As with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, rare reports of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have occurred with cerivastatin, although gemfibrozil or cyclosporin were administered concomitantly in most cases. Postmarketing surveillance studies in the US have been performed. In 3 mandated formulary switch conversion studies, cerivastatin was either equivalent or superior to other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including atorvastatin, in reducing serum LDL-cholesterol levels or achieving NCEP target levels. Pharmacoeconomic data with cerivastatin are limited, but analyses conducted to date in the US and Italy suggest that cerivastatin compares favourably with other available HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in terms of its cost per life-year gained.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11129129
Although the diagnosis of type 2 (noninsulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus is made when blood glucose levels exceed values which increase the risk of microvascular complications, macrovascular disease is the major complication of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Both epidemiological and prospective data have demonstrated that treatment of hyperglycaemia is markedly effective in reducing the risk of microvascular disease but is less potent in reducing that of myocardial infarction, stroke and peripheral vascular disease. Treatment of other cardiovascular risk factors, although by definition less prevalent than hyperglycaemia, appears to be more effective in preventing macrovascular disease than treatment of hyperglycaemia. In recent years, data from intervention trials have suggested that greater benefits with respect to the prevention of macrovascular disease can be achieved by effective treatment of hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia, and by the use of small doses of aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) than by treating hyperglycaemia alone. On the other hand, the UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS), which examined the impact of intensive glucose and blood pressure (BP) control on micro- and macrovascular complications, is the only intervention trial to include only patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The UKPDS data, the epidemic increase in the number of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and their high cardiovascular risk have, however, initiated several new trials addressing, in particular, the possible benefits of treatment of the most common form of dyslipidaemia (high serum triglyceride and low high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels) in these patients. Type 2 diabetes mellitus is thus a disease associated with a high vascular risk, where the majority of patients need, and are likely to benefit from, pharmacological treatment of several cardiovascular risk factors provided treatment targets have not been achieved by life-style modification.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11130218
To describe the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL)-lowering effect of pravastatin in African-American patients and to identify factors associated with achieving National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP)-defined target levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11130382
The LIPID study is a major trial of secondary prevention of coronary-heart-disease events that includes hospital admission with unstable angina (as well as myocardial infarction) as a qualifying event. In this substudy of LIPID, we compared subsequent cardiovascular risks and the effects of pravastatin in patients with previous unstable angina or previous myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11130523
This programme of overviews of randomised trials was established to investigate the effects of angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, calcium antagonists, and other blood-pressure-lowering drugs on mortality and major cardiovascular morbidity in several populations of patients. We did separate overviews of trials comparing active treatment regimens with placebo, trials comparing more intensive and less intensive blood-pressure-lowering strategies, and trials comparing treatment regimens based on different drug classes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11134659
There is experimental evidence that pravastatin, which is designed to inhibit the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol synthesis, can affect cell metabolism and proliferation. We therefore studied the effects of pravastatin on the generation of inflammatory mediators in non-stimulated and stimulated primary human monocytes in vitro. In our experimental model, pravastatin induced a dose-dependent inhibition of monocyte cholesterol synthesis (up to 67%), up-regulation of low density lipoprotein receptor mRNA (by about 35%) and reduction in intracellular cholesterol accumulation. In parallel, exposure of non-stimulated monocytes to various doses of pravastatin resulted in inhibition of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 protein expression (up to 15-fold), reduction of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) levels (up to 2.4-fold) and a total loss of metalloproteinase-9 activity in stimulated cells. Pravastatin at concentrations of 5, 100 and 500 microM caused an inhibition of TNF-alpha-induced cellular oxygen consumption from 2. 4- to 5.5-fold. These data extend the findings of potential anti-inflammatory actions of statins and also suggest the possibility for pravastatin use in a broader spectrum of inflammatory situations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11134806
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11137095
Several studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of 3 hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors on vascular properties, but little is known about treatment intensification. We compared patients in whom statins were started (INITIAL, n=30) for hypercholesterolaemia (>6.5 mmol l(-1)) with a matched patient group of long-time statin users, with similar baseline characteristics for lipids, intima-media thickness (IMT), and pulse wave velocity, in whom treatment with statins was intensified (LONG-TERM, n=54). At baseline and after 1 year, lipid profile, IMT of the carotid and femoral arteries, aortic distensibility using pulse-wave velocity and various properties of the peripheral vascular bed using a recently developed bio-impedance method were measured. After 1 year the relative changes in lipid profile were significantly better in the INITIAL compared with the LONG-TERM-group. The relative changes in IMT of the mean internal carotid and common femoral arteries significantly differed between the INITIAL and LONG-TERM-group (-8 and +11%, -11 and +22%, respectively). After 1 year, in both groups, most other vascular wall characteristics were unaltered compared with baseline. In conclusion, the beneficial structural alterations of the vascular wall were greater after starting than after intensifying already existing lipid-lowering treatment. This suggests that other effects of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors than lipid-lowering alone must be involved in vascular changes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11137513
A long-term follow-up study was made of three patients with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) associated with parkinsonism, two of whom were siblings. Besides typical CTX symptoms, all three patients showed severe parkinsonism. This observation has been rarely reported in CTX. The fact that the two siblings showed parkinsonism strongly suggests the genetic propensity to parkinsonism in these CTX patients. Positron emission tomography studies of the two patients revealed presynaptic dysfunction of the nigro-striatal dopaminergic system. Treatment with the reductase inhibitor hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme successfully corrected the serum cholestanol level in the early stage of the disease, which, however, did not arrest the progression of clinical symptoms, particularly their parkinsonism. Clinically, levodopa had a little effect on parkinsonism, whereas an antihistamine drug, diphenylpyraline hydrochloride (DPP) had excellent effects on all three patients throughout the long-term follow up. The mechanism of the action of DPP on parkinsonism is unclear, however, the drug seems to be a therapeutic choice for treating parkinsonism in CTX.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11137806
Hypercholesterolemia is a recognized risk factor for development of atherosclerosis in both native coronary arteries and bypass grafts. Lipid-lowering therapy with statins is effective. Few data are available for studies on bypass grafts. The influence of hypercholesterolemia on development of bypass graft disease was studied. Clinical and angiographic follow up 1yr after CABG of patients with a preoperative cholesterol >6.2mmol/l, with a preoperative lipid control (group 2) or controls (group 1) and patients with cholesterol <4.7mmol/l (group 3) were studied. Patient demographics, angiography and operation data were the same in all the groups. Group 1 patients had significantly higher incidence of graft lesions, requiring more interventions than Group 2. Sequential vein bypass grafts showed superior features compared to single vein grafts. Preoperative lipid control with statins is strongly recommended, since uncontrolled hypercholesterolemia has a direct impact on the outcome of CABG procedure. It significantly reduces the development of vein graft obstructive disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11137829
The NIsoldipine in COronary artery disease in LEuven (NICOLE) study investigates (1) whether nisoldipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, reduces the progression of minor coronary arterial lesions in the long term, and (2) whether it reduces the restenosis rate after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). The NICOLE study is a single-center, randomized, double-blind trial in 826 patients, who underwent a successful PTCA. Nisoldipine 40 mg coat-core or placebo was started the morning after the procedure and continued for 3 years. All coronary arterial segments were measured on preprocedural angiogram and on the second follow-up angiogram at 3 years. On the first follow-up angiogram at 6 months only the dilated segments were measured. Although the study is still ongoing until the primary end point is reached, we report in this study the angiographic restenosis data as well as the clinical events observed at 6-month follow-up. The per-protocol population consisted of 646 patients. Restenosis, defined as a > or =50% loss of the initial gain (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute criterion IV) occurred in 49% and 55% of the 308 nisoldipine-treated and the 338 placebo-treated patients, respectively (p = NS). At follow-up, the rates of death and myocardial infarction were low and similar in both groups, but in the nisoldipine group, less patients required early coronary angiography (18% vs 26%, p = 0.006) and subsequent revascularization procedures (32% vs 41%, p = 0.057). Thus, nisoldipine did not significantly reduce the angiographic restenosis rate after PTCA, but reduced the number of repeat revascularization procedures, which may be due to its antianginal action.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11137832
Diabetic dyslipoproteinemia characterized by hypertriglyceridemia, low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and often elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol with predominance of small, dense LDL is a strong risk factor for atherosclerosis. It is unclear whether fibrate or statin therapy is more effective in these patients. We compared atorvastatin (10 mg/day) with fenofibrate (200 mg/day), each for 6 weeks separated by a 6-week washout period in 13 patients (5 men and 8 women; mean age 60.0+/-6.8 years; body mass index 30.0+/-3.0 kg/m2) with type 2 diabetes mellitus (hemoglobin A1c 7.3+/-1.1%) and mixed hyperlipoproteinemia (LDL cholesterol 164.0+/-37.8 mg/dl, triglycerides 259.7+/-107 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 48.7+/-11.0 mg/dl) using a randomized, crossover design. Lipid profiles, LDL subfraction distribution, fasting plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation, and fibrinogen concentrations were determined before and after each drug. Atorvastatin decreased all LDL subfractions (LDL cholesterol, -29%; p <0.01) including small, dense LDL. Fenofibrate predominantly decreased triglyceride concentrations (triglycerides, -39%; p <0.005) and induced a shift in LDL subtype distribution from small, dense LDL (-31%) to intermediate-dense LDL (+36%). The concentration of small, dense LDL was comparable during therapy to both drugs (atorvastatin 62.8+/-19.5 mg/dl, fenofibrate 63.0+/-18.1 mg/dl). Both drugs induced an increase in HDL cholesterol (atorvastatin +10%, p <0.05; fenofibrate +11%, p = 0.06). In addition, fenofibrate decreased fibrinogen concentration (-15%, p <0.01) associated with a decrease in plasma viscosity by 3% (p <0.01) and improved red cell aggregation by 15% (p <0.05), whereas atorvastatin did not affect any hemorheologic parameter. We conclude that atorvastatin and fenofibrate can improve lipoprotein metabolism in type 2 diabetes. However, the medications affect different aspects of lipoprotein metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11139091
For patients with chronic stable angina, several randomized trials have been performed comparing medical management with surgery, medical management with angioplasty, and angioplasty with surgery. Data from the medical versus revascularization trials (either surgery or angioplasty) support the following contentions: For patients with multivessel disease, particularly involving the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery, survival is superior to surgical treatment. Symptom relief with either type of revascularization is superior to medical management. The subsequent rate of myocardial infarction is not affected by the initial treatment strategy, whether medical, angioplasty, or surgery. In individual patients the potential benefits of any revascularization strategy must be weighed against its initial risks. Further study is needed, particularly with multifaceted pharmacologic therapy and with updated angioplasty techniques, to evaluate relative survival benefits in these patients. The studies supporting these conclusions are highlighted in this paper.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11141142
To investigate the association between cholesterol lowering interventions and risk of death from suicide, accident, or trauma (non-illness mortality).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11144997
SCH 48461, an inhibitor of gastrointestinal absorption of cholesterol, was evaluated for its effects on lipid parameters in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia in a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group study. Following the baseline phase, which consisted of a 2- to 10-week drug washout and dietary stabilization phase and a 4-week placebo lead-in (placebo baseline phase), 190 patients were randomized to an 8-week double-blind active drug (SCH 48461 1, 6.25, 25, 100, 200, or 400 mg) or 40 mg lovastatin once daily each morning or placebo treatment phase. By week 2, patients who received SCH 48461 6.25 to 400 mg or lovastatin demonstrated greater reduction from baseline in directly measured low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels than patients in the placebo group (p < or = 0.03). Overall, the percent reductions in LDL-C from baseline increased as the dose of SCH 48461 increased, with 0.6% to 15.5% reductions from the minimum dose of 1 mg to the maximum dose of 400 mg. Lovastatin 40 mg/day reduced LDL-C by 30.7% (p < 0.01). Statistically significant decreases were also seen for total cholesterol and apolipoprotein B (apo B) with doses of 25 mg to 400 mg of SCH 48461 and lovastatin. SCH 48461 was well tolerated. There was a similar incidence of adverse events in each SCH 48461- or lovastatin-treated group compared to placebo. This study demonstrated a clinically and statistically significant cholesterol-lowering effect of SCH 48461 in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11152019
Delavirdine, a bisheteroarylpiperazine derivative, is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) that allosterically binds to HIV-1 reverse transcriptase, inhibiting both the RNA- and DNA-directed DNA polymerase functions of the enzyme. Delavirdine in combination with nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) produced sustained reductions in plasma viral loads and improvements in immunological responses in large randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of 48 to 54 weeks' duration. In patients with advanced HIV infection, triple therapy with delavirdine, zidovudine and lamivudine, didanosine or zalcitabine for 1 year significantly prolonged the time to virological failure compared with dual therapy (delavirdine plus zidovudine or 2 NRTIs; p < 0.0001). After 50 weeks' treatment, plasma HIV RNA levels were below the limit of detection (LOD; <50 copies/ml) for 40% of patients receiving triple therapy but for only 6% of those receiving dual NRTI therapy. Preliminary results suggest that delavirdine also has beneficial effects on surrogate markers as a component of protease inhibitor-containing triple or quadruple regimens. At 16 to 48 weeks, the minimum mean reduction in plasma viral load from baseline was 2.5 log10 copies/ml and mean CD4+ counts increased by 100 to 313 cells/microl. The proportion of patients with plasma HIV RNAlevels below the LOD (usually 200 to 500 copies/ml) ranged from 48 to 100% after > or = 16 weeks. Delavirdine was also effective as a component of saquinavir soft gel capsule-containing salvage regimens. Since delavirdine shares a common metabolic pathway (cytochrome P450 3A pathway) with other NNRTIs, HIV protease inhibitors and several drugs used to treat opportunistic infections in patients infected with HIV, the drug is associated with a number of pharmacokinetic interactions. Some of these drug interactions are clinically significant, necessitating dosage adjustments or avoidance of co-administration. Delavirdine is not recommended for use with lovastatin, simvastatin, rifabutin, rifampicin, sildenafil, ergot derivatives, quinidine, midazolam, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or phenytoin. Importantly, the drug favourably increases the plasma concentration of several protease inhibitors. Delavirdine is generally well tolerated. Skin rash is the most frequently reported adverse effect, occurring in 18 to 50% of patients receiving delavirdine-containing combination therapy in clinical trials. Although a high proportion of patients developed a rash, it was typically mild to moderate in intensity, did not result in discontinuation or adjustment of treatment in most patients and resolved quickly. The occurrence of Stevens-Johnson syndrome was rare (1 case in 1,000 patients). A retrospective analysis of pooled clinical trial data indicated that there was no significant difference in the incidence of liver toxicity, liver failure or noninfectious hepatitis between delavirdine-containing and non-delavirdine-containing antiretroviral treatment groups. In addition, the incidence of lipodystrophy, metabolic lipid disorders, hyperglycaemia and hypertriglyceridaemia was not significantly different between these 2 treatment groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11152850
Twenty subjects with mixed hyperlipidemia participated in a 3-arm crossover trial to evaluate the effectiveness of high-dose simvastatin as monotherapy. Significant reductions were observed in atherogenic lipids and lipoproteins. The highest dose of simvastatin also resulted in significant increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (21%) with a comparable increase in large, protective high-density lipoprotein particles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11153749
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11157682
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11157683
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11157685
We examined the development of new diabetes mellitus in men aged 45 to 64 years during the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11157690
Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability. Although clinical trials of the early lipid-lowering therapies did not demonstrate a reduction in the rates of stroke, data from recently completed statin trials strongly suggest benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11158224
Patients with nephrotic-range proteinuria have impaired clearance of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. This results in the atherogenic lipoprotein phenotype (mild hypertriglyceridemia, low high-density lipoproteins [HDL], and excess small, dense low-density lipoproteins [LDLIII]). Excess remnant lipoproteins (RLP) are linked to hypertriglyceridemia and may contribute to the atherogenicity of nephrotic dyslipidemia. A randomized crossover study compared the effects of a statin (cerivastatin) and a fibrate (fenofibrate) on LDLIII and RLP in 12 patients with nephrotic-range proteinuria. Cerivastatin reduced cholesterol (21%, P: < 0.01), triglyceride (14%, P: < 0.05), LDL cholesterol (LDL-C; 23%, P: < 0.01), total LDL (18%, P: < 0.01), and LDLIII concentration (27% P: < 0.01). %LDLIII, RLP-C, and RLP triglyceride (RLP-TG) were unchanged. Plasma LDLIII reduction with cerivastatin treatment correlated with LDL-C reduction (r(2) = 34%, P: < 0.05). Fenofibrate lowered cholesterol (19%), triglyceride (41%), very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (52%), LDLIII concentration (49%), RLP-C (35%), and RLP-TG (44%; all P: < 0.01). Fenofibrate also reduced %LDLIII from 60 to 33% (P: < 0.01). HDL-C (19%, P: < 0.01) increased with fenofibrate treatment; LDL-C and total LDL were unchanged. The reduction in LDLIII concentration and RLP-C with fenofibrate treatment correlated with plasma triglyceride reduction (LDLIII r(2) = 67%, P: < 0.001; RLP cholesterol r(2) = 58%, P: < 0.005). Serum creatinine increased with fenofibrate treatment (14%, P: < 0.01); however, creatinine clearance was unchanged. LDLIII concentration was 187 +/- 85 mg/dl after cerivastatin treatment and 133 +/- 95 mg/dl after fenofibrate treatment. Cerivastatin and fenofibrate reduce LDLIII concentration in nephrotic-range proteinuria. However, atherogenic concentrations of LDLIII remain prevalent after either treatment. Fenofibrate but not cerivastatin reduces remnant lipoproteins. The two treatments seem to reduce LDLIII by different mechanisms, suggesting a potential role for combination therapy to optimize lowering of LDLIII and RLP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11159815
The main etiology for mortality and a great percent of morbidity in patients with diabetes mellitus is atherosclerosis. A hypothesis for the initial lesion of atherosclerosis is endothelial dysfunction, defined pragmatically as changes in the concentration of the chemical messengers produced by the endothelial cell and/or by blunting of the nitric oxide-dependent vasodilatory response to acetylcholine or hyperemia. Endothelial dysfunction has been documented in patients with diabetes and in individuals with insulin resistance or at high risk for developing type 2 diabetes. Factors associated with endothelial dysfunction in diabetes include activation of protein kinase C, overexpression of growth factors and/or cytokines, and oxidative stress. Several therapeutic interventions have been tested in clinical trials aimed at improving endothelial function in patients with diabetes. Insulin sensitizers may have a beneficial effect in the short term, but the virtual absence of trials with cardiovascular end-points preclude any definitive conclusion. Two trials offer optimism that treatment with ACE inhibitors may have a positive impact on the progression of atherosclerosis. Although widely used, the effect of hypolipidemic agents on endothelial function in diabetes is not clear. The role of antioxidant therapy is controversial. No data have been published regarding the effects of hormonal replacement therapy on endothelial dysfunction in postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11161942
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11163746
This article continues a series of reports summarising recent research developments pertinent to the topic of heart failure. This is a summary of presentations made at scientific sessions of the American Heart Association in November 2000. Clinical studies of particular interest to people caring for patients with heart failure include Val-HeFT, AMIOVIRT and V-MAC. New data from beta-blockers trials are reviewed, highlights from some important developments in post-infarction care, including MIRACL and FLORIDA, discussed and results of some early studies of gene therapy reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11165421
The Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) is a randomized, practice-based trial sponsored by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI). The double-blind, active-controlled component of ALLHAT was designed to determine whether the rate of the primary outcome-a composite of fatal coronary heart disease and nonfatal myocardial infarction-differs between diuretic (chlorthalidone) treatment and each of three other classes of antihypertensive drugs: a calcium antagonist (amlodipine), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (lisinopril), and an alpha-adrenergic blocker (doxazosin) in high-risk hypertensive persons ages 55 years and older. In addition, 10,377 ALLHAT participants with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia were also enrolled in a randomized, open-label trial designed to determine whether lowering serum LDL cholesterol with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor (pravastatin) will reduce all-cause mortality as compared to a control group receiving "usual care." In January 2000, an independent data review committee recommended discontinuing the doxazosin treatment arm. The NHLBI director promptly accepted the recommendation. This article discusses the steps involved in the orderly closeout of one arm of ALLHAT and the dissemination of trial results. These steps included provisional preparations; the actual decision process; establishing a timetable; forming a transition committee; preparing materials and instructions; informing 65 trial officers and coordinators, 628 active clinics and satellite locations, 313 institutional review boards, over 42,000 patients, and the general public; reporting detailed trial results; and monitoring the closeout process. Control Clin Trials 2001;22:29-41

Abstract for pubmed ID 11165956
Despite well-documented clinical benefit of the use of statins in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and even mild lipid elevations, studies have documented the presence of a significant "treatment gap" between those patients in whom treatment is indicated and those patients who actually receive it. It has been proposed that a prescription for statin therapy given to indicated patients at the time of initial angiographic diagnosis of CAD has the potential to improve long-term medication compliance, but this requires further evaluation. We prospectively followed 600 patients with angiographically demonstrated CAD (diameter stenosis > or = 70%) who met the National Cholesterol Education Project (NCEP) guidelines for statin therapy for an average of 3.0 years (range 2.0 to 4.6). Patients were an average of 65 years of age, 78% were men, 77% presented initially with acute ischemic syndrome, and 64 (10.7%) died during follow-up. Overall, 105 patients (18%) were discharged from the initial hospitalization with a statin prescription. At long-term follow-up, the number of patients taking statins had increased to 47%. However, long-term statin compliance was significantly higher among patients initially discharged with a statin prescription than those who were not (77% vs 40%; p < 0.0001). Additionally, those patients discharged with a statin prescription had significantly reduced mortality rate at long-term follow-up (5.7% vs 11.7%; p = 0.05). Cox hazard regression analysis, controlling for all known clinical baseline variables, confirmed the absence of a prehospital discharge statin prescription to be an independent predictor of increased mortality (hazard ratio 2.4) with a statistical trend (p = 0.06). Thus, this study demonstrates that after angiographic diagnosis of CAD, prescription of appropriate statin therapy at the time of hospital discharge improves long-term statin compliance and may significantly enhance survival.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11165973
The clinical and biochemical determinants of the fibrinogen response to simvastatin or atorvastatin therapy were assessed in 130 patients with severe polygenic or familial hypercholesterolemia treated in a randomized open-trial format design. Hyperfibrinogenemia was associated with atorvastatin, baseline fibrinogen, and initial concentration and change in concentration of apolipoprotein B or low-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11166775
Hyperhomocysteinemia is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Elevation in homocysteine levels has recently been demonstrated during lipid lowering treatment with fibrates. We compared the effect of a statin and a fibrate (atorvastatin and fenofibrate) on plasma levels of homocysteine and other thiol compounds in hyperlipidemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11166784
The purpose of this study was to compare the macrocirculatory and microcirculatory effects of simvastatin in hyperlipemic patients. In vitro measurements of lipoprotein levels and macrocirculatory hemorheology were complemented by in vivo measurements of the pulmonary capillary red cell volume (RCVpc) before and after 6 weeks of treatment with 40 mg of simvastatin daily in 30 male patients with hyperlipoproteinemia type IIa. RCVpc was assessed from the vascular component of the lung diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide, using the modification of the Roughton-Forster's method. RCVpc was increased in patients (60.9+/-9 versus 40+/-9 ml in healthy controls) and it decreased to 47+/-6 ml after treatment (P=5x10(-11)). The decreases in RCVpc correlated to concomitant decreases in peripheral hematocrit (R=0.68) and serum total cholesterol (-34% on average; R=0.59). Membrane diffusing capacity was normal in patients and not affected by the therapy; suggesting that increased RCVpc was due to increased micropulmonary hematocrit. Thus, it appears that viscosity in microcirculation is greatly increased in hyperlipemic patients and that simvastatin is able to normalize it. Since microcirculatory conditions can only partly be inferred from in vitro measurements the use of lung diffusional parameters was advocated, which enable in vivo assessment of hemorheology in microcirculation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11169596
This paper discusses interim analysis of randomized clinical trials for which the primary endpoint is observed at a specific long-term follow-up time. For such trials subjects only yield direct information on the primary endpoint once they have been followed through to the long-term follow-up time, potentially eliminating a large proportion of the accrued sample from an interim analysis of the primary endpoint. We advocate more efficient interim analysis of long-term endpoints by augmenting long-term information with short-term information on subjects who have not yet been followed through to the long-term follow-up time. While retaining the long-term endpoint as the subject of the analysis, methods of jointly analysing short- and long-term data are discussed for reversible binary endpoints. It is shown theoretically and by simulation that the use of short-term information improves the efficiency with which long-term treatment differences are assessed based on interim data. Sequential analysis of treatment differences is discussed based on spending functions, and is illustrated with a numerical example from a cholesterol treatment trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11171785
The common -514 C-->T polymorphism in the promoter region of the hepatic lipase (HL) gene affects HL activity. The C allele is associated with higher HL activity, more dense and atherogenic LDL, and lower HDL(2) cholesterol. Intensive lipid-lowering therapy lowers HL activity, increases LDL and HDL buoyancy, and promotes coronary artery disease (CAD) regression. We tested the hypothesis that subjects with the CC genotype and a more atherogenic lipid profile experience the greatest CAD regression from these favorable effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11173182
The aims of the present study are to assess the 5 year effects of pravastatin on serum lipids and lipoproteins in women around the menopause and to assess the effects of pravastatin on serum gonadotropins and sex steroid levels over a long-term period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11176209
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11176731
To compare the use of lipid-lowering agents in 42 628 elderly patients (aged > or =65 years) after acute myocardial infarction, before and after the publication of the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), using the Ontario Myocardial Infarction Database.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11177154
To review the practice of evidence-based medicine with respect to drug treatment given to medical in-patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11177653
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11179260
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11179541
Niaspan, when added to a stable dose of a statin in 66 subjects, was found to be safe and highly effective in improving lipid parameters. Subgroup analyses demonstrated its effectiveness in lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in persons not at the National Cholesterol and Education Program low-density lipoprotein cholesterol target and in raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in persons with levels < 40 mg/dl.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11181465
The clinical benefits of lipid lowering with statins are attributed to changes in plaque composition leading to lesion stability, but supporting clinical data from human studies are lacking. Therefore, we investigated the effect of 3 months of pravastatin treatment on composition of human carotid plaques removed during carotid endarterectomy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11182189
Beneficial effects of statins in preventing cardiovascular events may depend, at least in part, on their anti-inflammatory action. The aim of the study was to assess the influence of simvastatin and aspirin on serum levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in hypercholesterolemic subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11185669
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of cholestyramine in combination with statins on vitamin E levels and their concentration related to LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) in patients with hyperlipidemia. In an open-label, randomized study of 25 patients with elevated LDL-C, 12 received cholestyramine (12 g/d) in addition to chronic statin therapy, which had been started at least 8 weeks prior to the study in all patients. At the start and end of the 12-week study period, vitamin E concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography and cholesterol and triglycerides enzymatically in all patients. Vitamin E levels remained virtually unchanged within normal range before (11.90 +/- 0.71 mg/l) and after 12 weeks (11.69 +/- 0.82 mg/l) of concomitant therapy with cholestyramine. However, the ratio of vitamin E/LDL-C increased from 7.48 +/- 0.56 to 8.58 +/- 0.75 (x 10(-2)) (p < 0.09) in the cholestyramine group but not in the control group. LDL-C concentrations decreased from 162.00 +/- 5.98 to 144.33 +/- 12.48 mg/dl. The authors conclude that cholestyramine 12 g/d given for 12 weeks in addition to chronic statin therapy did not lower vitamin E levels in hyperlipemic patients. However, antioxidant status (vitamin E/LDL-C ratio) seems to be improved by a cholestyramine-associated LDL-C decrease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11187857
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11191718
Several observational studies indicate that reduction of serum cholesterol levels is related to an increase in violent deaths and suicide but the nature of this possible relationship remains unclear. Many confounding factors, e.g. poor health, depression and loss of appetite may play a role in the apparent relationship between serum cholesterol levels and suicide. Two separate phenomena should be considered: lowering total cholesterol and low total cholesterol. This review considers the evidence from epidemiological studies on serum cholesterol lowering and psychiatric disturbances. The available evidence does not seem to substantiate the view that large-scale intervention to reduce cholesterol concentrations could lead to more violent and aggressive behaviour, and generally greater unhappiness. In recent trials using statin treatment, there were slightly fewer deaths from accidents and suicide in the treated group compared with the placebo group. We believe that clinicians should not be deterred from prescribing cholesterol-lowering drugs, to reduce the risk of death from coronary heart disease, when they are indicated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11194239
Epidemiological studies have shown that the risk of myocardial infarction (MI) in diabetic patients without cardiovascular disease (CVD) is comparable to the risk of MI in patients with CVD. We used a validated Markov model to compare the long-term costs and benefits of treating dyslipidemia in diabetic patients without CVD versus treating CVD patients without diabetes in the U.S. The generalizability and robustness of these results were also compared across six other countries (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the U.K.).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11195599
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11195601
Although hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is classically considered a disease of the left ventricle, right ventricular (RV) abnormalities have also been reported. However, involvement of the right ventricle in HCM has not been extensively characterized. The literature regarding prevalence, genetics, patterns of involvement, histologic findings, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of RV abnormalities in HCM is reviewed. To highlight the salient points, a case is presented of apical HCM with significant RV involvement, with an RV outflow tract gradient and near obliteration of the RV cavity, in the absence of a left intraventricular gradient. Right ventricular involvement in HCM appears to be as heterogeneous as that of the left ventricle. The spectrum extends from mild concentric hypertrophy to more unusual severe, obstructive disease. While in some cases the extent of RV involvement correlates with left ventricular (LV) involvement, predominant RV disease can be seen as well. While the genetics of RV involvement have not been well characterized, histologic findings appear to be similar to those in the left ventricle, suggesting similar pathogenesis. Significant RV involvement may result in RV outflow obstruction and/or reduced RV diastolic filling, with potentially increased incidence of severe dyspnea, supraventricular arrhythmias, and pulmonary thromboembolism. The optimal treatment for patients with significant RV disease is unknown. Medical and surgical therapies have been attempted with variable success; experience with newer techniques such as percutaneous catheter ablation has not been reported. Further characterization of RV involvement in HCM is necessary to elucidate more clearly the clinical features and optimal treatments of this manifestation of HCM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11198621
This article reviews the rationale for lipid lowering in patients who have coronary heart disease, and specifically for post-bypass patients. It has been well demonstrated that after coronary artery bypass graft surgery, atherosclerosis continues to progress in the native circulation and develops at an accelerated rate in saphenous vein bypass grafts. During the last decade, numerous clinical trials based on angiographic or clinical outcomes have clearly shown the beneficial effect of lipid lowering in coronary heart disease. Three trials (CLAS, post-CABG, and CARE) have demonstrated delayed progression of atherosclerosis in SVGs and/or a reduction of cardiac deaths, nonfatal MI, and the need for revascularization after lowering LDL-cholesterol. The recommended target of LDL cholesterol level of more than 100 mg/dl can be safely reached with diet and monotherapy using one of the statin drugs (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors). Despite this widely-circulated information, there appears to be inadequate public and professional awareness of the importance of properly managing hyperlipidemia after coronary artery bypass graft surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11198624
To an increasing degree, cardiology and endocrinology are finding a broadening interface. There is little doubt that atherosclerosis is in many ways a metabolic disorder, just as it is becoming increasingly clear that diabetes is a vascular disease. Framing such notions is evidence of diabetes as a risk equivalent for coronary disease, and clinical cardiovascular trials demonstrate the impact of altering lipid metabolism. Although the focus has been on statins and LDL, data continues to emerge for other therapies for triglycerides and HDL. These issues are discussed, as are future directions for metabolic therapeutic interventions for vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11199329
Inflammation plays a key role in susceptibility to coronary atherosclerosis and response to therapy. A diverse array of factors modulates inflammation, including interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and CD14 receptors on the surface of macrophages. Genes encoding for inflammatory markers have variants that regulate their expression and are potential risk factors for atherosclerosis. We prospectively analyzed the possible association of CD14 -260C/T, TNF-alpha -308G/A, and IL-6 -174G/C variants, located in the promoter regions, with the severity, progression, and response to therapy of coronary atherosclerosis in a well-characterized cohort. We studied 375 subjects enrolled in the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS). Genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction mapping. Fasting plasma lipids and quantitative coronary angiograms were obtained at baseline and 2.5 years following randomization to fluvastatin or placebo. Distributions of genotypes were--for CD14: 100 CC, 184 CT, and 86 TT; IL-6: 152 GG, 153 GC, and 62 CC; and TNF-alpha: 244 GG, 110 GA, and 17 AA. The CD14 CC genotype was associated with incidence of new coronary occlusion (P=0.026); TNF-alpha AA genotype with history of myocardial infarction (MI, P=0.04), and A allele with total occlusions at baseline (P=0.027), and systolic blood pressure (P=0.046); and IL-6-174 CC genotype with baseline minimum lumen diameter (P=0.043) and reduction in lipoprotein(a) with fluvastatin (P=0.03). Otherwise, no association between the genotypes and the biochemical, angiographic, and clinical phenotypes was detected, and neither were genotype-treatment interactions. Functional variants of CD14 -260C/T, TNF-alpha -308G/A, and IL-6 -174G/C, implicated in the susceptibility to infection, are unlikely to confer major risk for susceptibility to coronary atherosclerosis and its progression or response to therapy in the LCAS population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11200090
Oxidized low density lipoprotein (LDL) has a major impact in the development of atherosclerosis. Risk for oxidative modification of LDL is usually determined indirectly by measuring the capability of LDL to resist radical insult. We compared three different methods quantifying the antioxidative capacity of LDL ex vivo in dyslipidemic patients with coronary heart disease. Plasma samples were obtained from two double-blinded cross-over trials. The duration of all interventions (placebo, lovastatin 60 mg/day, RRR-alpha-tocopherol 300 mg/day and lovastatin + RRR-alpha-tocopherol combined) was 6 weeks. The total radical capturing capacity of LDL (TRAP) in plasma was determined using 2,2-azo-bis(2,4-dimethyl-valeronitrile) (AMVN) -induced oxidation, and measuring the extinction time of chemiluminescence. TRAP was compared to the variables characterizing formation of conjugated dienes in copper-induced oxidation. Also the initial concentrations and consumption times of reduced alpha-tocopherol (alpha-TOH) and ubiquinol in AMVN-induced oxidation were determined. Repeatability of TRAP was comparable to that of the lag time in conjugated diene formation. Coefficient of variation within TRAP assay was 4.4% and between TRAP assays 5.9%. Tocopherol supplementation produced statistically significant changes in all antioxidant variables except those related to LDL ubiquinol. TRAP increased by 57%, the lag time in conjugated diene formation by 34% and consumption time of alpha-TOH by 88%. When data of all interventions were included in the analyses, TRAP correlated with the lag time (r = 0.75, p < 10(-6)), with LDL alpha-TOH (r = 0.50, p < 0.001) and with the consumption time of alpha-TOH (r = 0.58, p < 0.0001). In the baseline data, the associations between different antioxidant variables were weaker. TRAP correlated with the lag time (r = 0.55, p < 0.001) and alpha-TOH consumption time (r = 0.48, p < 0.05), and inversely with apolipoprotein Al (r = -0.51, p < 0.05). Lag time at the baseline did not correlate with ubiquinol or tocopherol parameters, or with any plasma lipid or lipoprotein levels analyzed. Lovastatin treatment did not significantly affect the antioxidant capacity of LDL. In conclusion, TRAP reflects slightly different properties of LDL compared to the lag time. Thus, LDL TRAP assay may complement the other methods used to quantify the antioxidant capacity of LDL. However, TRAP and the lag time react similarly to vitamin E supplementation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11202535
Drug cost projections for 2001 and factors that are likely to influence drug costs are discussed. The year 2000 introduced many new factors into the decision-making process for drug pricing and raised new considerations regarding drug therapy, distribution, and costs. It is anticipated that drug costs will continue to increase at a rate of 11-15% in 2001. Research and development expenditures for new drugs continue to grow and are estimated to be $26.4 billion in 2000, but the number of new drug approvals, especially for new entities, has not increased significantly. The generic drug industry has been expanding, and sales of generics are expected to increase to $20 billion by 2005. Drug costs also keep rising, and sales may reach $243 billion by 2008; this amounts to 12.6% of total health care spending, compared with 8.1% in 1999. There is a trend toward increasing the rate of conversion of prescription drugs to nonprescription status; this may reduce drug budgets somewhat. 2001 will see new systems of drug distribution and pricing, a federal prospective pricing system for ambulatory care patients covered by Medicare, drug imports from foreign manufacturers, and states taking legal action to reduce prescription drug costs. Drug costs in 2001 are expected to continue to increase at double-digit rates. The increase in costs is due to increased utilization, to new products replacing older products, and to price increases for drugs currently on the market.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11202630
On the assumption that antithrombotic drugs are able to reduce the incidence of any vascular event independently of where it first occurs, they are used for the secondary prevention of arterial vascular disease in different locations. The Antiplatelet Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis has shown that the net benefit of antiplatelet drugs in the prevention of stroke, acute myocardial infarction and vascular death is about the same for patients with prior stroke or prior myocardial infarction. Most of the trials included in the Antiplatelet Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis used aspirin, which was shown to lower the risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, and vascular death in patients with a history of transient ischemic attack or stroke. Aspirin should be given to patients operated on for symptomatic carotid stenosis and should be considered for asymptomatic patients. In a comparative study ticlopidine (500 mg) vs aspirin (650 mg), ticlopidine reduced the relative risk of vascular events by 9% and of recurrent stroke by 21%. When clopidogrel (75 mg) was compared with aspirin (325 mg), a 7.3% relative risk reduction was seen in the stroke group (6431 patients) of the CAPRIE study; a reduction in hemorrhagic events, especially in gastrointestinal bleeding, was also seen. At variance with previous studies, the ESPS-2 showed an advantage when dipyridamole (400 mg) was added to aspirin (50 mg). Oral anticoagulants are more effective than aspirin in the prevention of cardioembolic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. The higher efficacy of indobufen with respect to aspirin in this particular setting needs confirmation. Inhibition of thrombosis may be one of the mechanisms explaining the effect of statins in reducing both stroke and cardiac events in high-risk patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11204308
The Plaque Hypertension Lipid Lowering Italian Study (PHYLLIS), is the first study in patients with hypertension (diastolic blood pressure (DBP) 95-115 mmHg; systolic blood pressure (SBP) 150-210 mmHg), moderate hypercholesterolaemia (LDL-cholesterol 4.14-5.17 mmol/l (160-200 mg/dl) and initial carotid artery alterations (maximum intima-media thickness (IMT) Tmax > or = 1.3 mm). The primary objective of PHYLLIS is investigating whether in these patients administration of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, fosinopril, and a statin, pravastatin, is more effective than administration of a diuretic and a lipid-lowering diet in retarding or regressing alterations in carotid IMT. While the study is in progress, baseline data are here reported to clarify the association of various risk factors with carotid IMT in these medium-high risk hypertensive patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11208246
Several angiographic-based trials have established that triglyceride remnant particles are associated with progression of coronary stenosis, and a recent prospective study has shown that triglycerides are associated with coronary heart disease (CHD), even after adjustment for high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. The importance of plasma triglycerides in CHD risk must be interpreted within the context of other plasma lipoproteins, as well as the fasting and postprandial triglyceride levels. Recommendations for triglyceride lowering are empiric because of the lack of randomized clinical trial data that evaluate triglyceride-lowering therapies and CHD prevention. This article presents a clinical approach to the management of hypertriglyceridemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11211013
This two-part review is intended principally for practising clinicians who want to know why some types of evidence about the effects of treatment on survival, and on other major aspects of chronic disease outcome, are much more reliable than others. Although there are a few striking examples of treatments for serious disease which really do work extremely well, most claims for big improvements turn out to be evanescent. Unrealistic expectations about the chances of discovering large treatment effects could misleadingly suggest that evidence from small randomised trials or from non-randomised studies will suffice. By contrast, the reliable assessment of any more moderate effects of treatment on major outcomes--which are usually all that can realistically be expected from most treatments for most common serious conditions--requires studies that guarantee both strict control of bias (which, in general, requires proper randomisation and appropriate analysis, with no unduly data-dependent emphasis on specific parts of the overall evidence) and strict control of random error (which, in general, requires large numbers of deaths or of some other relevant outcome). Past failures to produce such evidence, and to interpret it appropriately, have already led to many premature deaths and much unnecessary suffering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11213855
To characterize frequency of liver enzyme elevation in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving troglitazone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11213860
Warfarin is an anticoagulant available as a racemic mixture. The R- and S-isomers differ with respect to relative plasma concentrations, clearance, potency, sites of metabolism, and cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes responsible for metabolism. S-Warfarin, the more potent isomer, is metabolized primarily by CYP2C9. Genetic polymorphisms resulting from single amino acid substitutions reduce the metabolic capability of 2C9. A reduction in warfarin metabolism due to genetic polymorphism may explain the increased warfarin response and bleeding episodes in some patients. Clinical studies showed an increased plasma level of S-warfarin, decreased clearance of S-warfarin, increased frequency of bleeding, and prolongation of hospitalization in patients with variant CYP2C9 alleles. Adverse outcomes associated with warfarin possibly could be avoided by identifying patients with variant alleles before therapy and starting therapy at low dosages.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11214768
In patients with mixed lipid disorders, monotherapy may not effectively control all lipid abnormalities. We undertook this study to assess the efficacy of fenofibrate in combination with atorvastatin in patients with severe mixed dyslipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11216330
To ascertain factors related to readiness to change behavioral risk factors in members of a managed care organization (MCO).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11218969
To perform an economics evaluation of lipid-lowering therapy with atorvastatin and simvastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia in primary care setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11219479
A new extended-release (ER) formulation of fluvastatin 80 mg has been developed for once-daily treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11220455
Clinical trial data are now sufficient to support aggressive treatment of dyslipidemia. Cholesterol-lowering therapy is known to reduce the risk of clinical events across a wide range of lipid levels, even in patients with "normal" levels. Current data support lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels at least to those recommended by the National Cholesterol Education Program, but perhaps even more aggressively in some patients. Of the available cholesterol-lowering agents, statins produce the greatest reductions in LDL-C levels and coronary events and are currently the best treatment option for most patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11220553
To determine the efficacy and tolerability of sibutramine hydrochloride in obese patients whose type 2 diabetes was poorly controlled on diet alone or with an oral antidiabetic agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11221271
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11223435
This study was performed to determine whether the levels of soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-l) and soluble endothelial molecule-1 (sE-selectin) were elevated in subjects with hypercholesterolemia who presented with no other risk factors or evidence of atherosclerosis. The effects of administration of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor on the serum levels of these molecules were also examined. Forty hypercholesterolemic subjects (HCh) (19 males and 21 females), without hypertension or cardiovascular disease, received placebo for 4 weeks. The patients were then randomized in two groups; 20 of them (simvastatin group) were treated with simvastatin (20 mg/day) and the other 20 (placebo group) continued placebo administration. After 12 and 24 weeks of either simvastatin or placebo treatment, sICAM-1 and sE-selectin levels were measured. The same parameters were measured in 20 control subjects (C) with normal cholesterol levels, matched for sex and age. HCh had sICAM-1 basal values higher than C (352.4+/-57.9 ng/ml versus 114.9+/-89.6 ng/ml; P<0.001); however, sE-selectin basal values were not different in the two groups. No correlation was observed between HCh sICAM-1 levels and cholesterol levels (total and low-density lipoprotein). Furthermore, cholesterol-lowering treatment with simvastatin did not significantly diminish sICAM-1 levels. Our findings would support the hypothesis that patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia and without clinical atherosclerosis may be silent carriers of arterial subendothelial inflammation, expressed as an increase of sICAM-1.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11223444
To obtain information in vivo concerning the role of Fcgamma receptors (FcgammaR) in atherosclerosis, we used quantitative flow cytometry to measure the levels of expression of FcgammaRI and FcgammaRIIA on peripheral monocytes in patients with severe atherosclerosis. Expression of several other markers was also measured. We found that differences in the levels of expression of FcgammaRI were not statistically significant when compared between patients and control subjects. For FcgammaRIIA, levels of expression were decreased in the patient group, a difference that was statistically significant. Levels of expression of CD14 and CD36 were also significantly decreased in the patient group. The decrease in expression of FcgammaRIIA was statistically significant when the effects of current cigarette smoking status or medication use, including statins, were taken into account. There was also a positive and statistically significant correlation between high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol and levels of expression of FcgammaRIIA for all subjects. In contrast, decreased levels of expression of CD14 and CD36 were strongly associated with current smoking status or statin use. In summary, levels of expression of FcgammaRIIA on peripheral blood monocytes were significantly decreased in patients with clinical atherosclerosis. Additional studies are warranted to determine if levels of expression of FcgammaRIIA have utility as a phenotypic marker for assessing relative risk of atherosclerotic disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11223448
Several cardiovascular risk factors adversely affect arterial compliance or the distensibility of large arteries. The role of raised low-density lipoproteins (LDL) cholesterol is uncertain, most studies having shown little effect. We, therefore, investigated whether lowering LDL would improve arterial compliance. Twenty hypercholesterolemic subjects (LDL cholesterol 4.95+/-1.11 mmol/l) were randomized to simvastatin (20 or 40 mg daily) or placebo, each for 4 weeks. Arterial function was assessed at the end of the placebo and simvastatin periods, systemic arterial compliance (SAC) and pulse wave velocities (PWV) centrally (aorto-femoral) and peripherally (femoral-posterior tibial). Results: Lipoproteins (LDL) cholesterol was reduced similarly with 20 and 40 mg simvastatin (ten subjects each dose) and data were pooled. Lipoproteins (LDL) cholesterol fell 39%, plasma triglyceride fell 18% and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol rose 12%, all significant. Systemic arterial compliance (SAC) and central PWV did not change significantly but peripheral PWV showed evidence of greater compliance after simvastatin (10.1+/-1.3 vs. 9.4+/-1.3 m/s with placebo and simvastatin, P<0.03), distensibility being inversely related to PWV. Improvement in PWV was greatest in those with poorest baseline values, r=0.50; P<0.02. Conclusion: Peripheral PWV was alone improved with LDL lowering probably because of the muscularity of that arterial bed; central PWV and SAC (in the elastic aorta) were not influenced.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11223999
To assess trends in prevalence and detection, treatment and control of hypertension in a German population between 1984 and 1995.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11224003
A poor therapeutic compliance is a major cause of insufficient control of hypertension. As education of patients is fundamental in order to improve their compliance, we organised two pilot educational meetings aimed at (1) assessing the support of patients to this kind of meetings, and (2) verifying the impact on patient's education.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11225741
Patients with type 2 diabetes are at high risk for coronary heart disease (CHD); frequently, these patients have abnormal lipid profiles, placing them at even greater risk. A syndrome of insulin resistance, hyperinsulinaemia, hypertension, and high levels of fibrinogen and plasminogen activator inhibitor contributes to cardiovascular risk, which is not sufficiently decreased by glycaemic control alone. In several large interventional trials, CHD risk in patients with diabetes was substantially reduced by aggressive lipid-lowering therapy. In patients with diabetes, CHD, low high-density lipoprotein levels, and normal low-density lipoprotein levels, gemfibrozil reduced fatal and non-fatal CHD events. For lipid-lowering in patients with diabetes and CHD, pravastatin and simvastatin are the only HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors shown to reduce fatal and non-fatal CHD events. Of these, pravastatin has less potential for drug-drug interactions and may be safer to use, particularly for combination therapy with fibric acid derivatives, as may now be important for CHD prevention in mixed dyslipidaemias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11227051
Coronary heart disease (CHD), whose primary aetiology is atherosclerosis, is the leading cause of mortality and a major cause of morbidity in the industrialised world [1]. Serum lipoprotein levels are aetiologically related to the risk of atherosclerosis and CHD [2]. The liver and the gastrointestinal system are the major protagonists involved in regulation of lipoprotein biochemical-physiological mechanisms and the development of hypercholesterolaemia. Furthermore, specific lipoprotein receptors are being discovered as targets for pharmacological intervention to correct lipoprotein disorders. Agents that target lipoprotein regulation in the liver, gastrointestinal-biliary and atherosclerotic tissues resulting in improved serum lipoprotein levels and/or control of primary and secondary dyslipidaemic disorders including diabetes, are currently undergoing clinical trials. The most novel promising compounds, after the greatly effective newest HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, are drugs that affect peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors, PPARalpha and PPARgamma receptors, bile acid transport mechanisms, cholesterol absorption and cholesterol acyltransferase and other biochemical targets of lipoprotein regulation. Current knowledge and ongoing trials with these agents are described here within the boundaries of investigator confidentiality agreements.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11228031
To review the central role of cholesterol in coronary artery disease (CAD), underscore the need for identifying patients at high risk of CAD, and discuss treatment of dyslipidemias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11228171
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among patients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI). beta-Adrenergic blockers, acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) all reduce CVD mortality, but little is known about the extent to which these medications are used in patients with CRI. This study, a prospective cross-sectional study of consecutive patients seen by nephrologists in four Canadian centers for follow-up of progressive CRI in 1999, was performed to investigate the prevalence of coronary risk factors and use of cardioprotective medications among patients with CRI. Patients had creatinine clearances of 75 mL/min or less but were not on dialysis therapy. Three hundred four consecutive patients meeting the inclusion criteria were enrolled. Mean age was 60.8 +/- 15.7 years, mean creatinine clearance was 30.3 +/- 18 mL/min, and the case mix of kidney diseases was similar to that in the Canadian Organ Replacement Registry data. One hundred seventeen of 304 patients (38.5%) had a history of previous CVD, and the prevalence of CVD was greater in patients with more severe CRI. Two hundred forty-three patients (79.9%) had a history of hypertension, 132 patients (43.4%) had hyperlipidemia, 114 patients (37.5%) had diabetes mellitus, and 71 patients (27.3%) were smokers. Thirty-five percent of the patients with CVD had blood pressures greater than 140/90 mm Hg; 103 patients (33.9%) were administered beta-blockers; 196 patients (64.5%), ACE inhibitors or angiotensin-receptor blockers; 83 patients (27.3%), ASA; and 56 patients (18.4%), statins. Patients with diabetes were not more likely than those without diabetes to be prescribed cardioprotective medications. CVD is common in the predialysis population, and its prevalence increases with more severe kidney failure. Despite this, the use of cardioprotective medications is relatively low, and many patients had suboptimal blood pressure control. Given the high burden of disease in these patients, beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors should be used to control hypertension and/or for cardioprotection, and the increased use of ASA and statins should be considered.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11229669
Statins inhibit the same biochemical pathway as aminobisphosphonates, therefore these cholesterol-lowering agents may have a beneficial effect on osteoporosis. This possibility has been supported by the finding that some statins also stimulate bone formation, and by observational studies suggesting that patients using statins have higher bone densities and lower fracture rates than controls. To assess whether statins have clinically significant effects on bone, we studied the frequency of fractures in a large randomised controlled trial of these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11230838
The 6-week efficacy and safety of atorvastatin versus simvastatin was determined during a 54-week, open-label, multicenter, parallel-arm, treat-to-target study. In all, 1,424 patients with mixed dyslipidemia (triglyceride 200 to 600 mg/dl [2.26 to 6.77 mmol/L]) were stratified to 1 of 2 groups (diabetes or no diabetes). Patients were then randomized to receive either atorvastatin 10 mg/ day (n = 730) or simvastatin 10 mg/day (n = 694). Efficacy was determined by measuring changes from baseline in lipid parameters including low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and apolipoprotein B. Compared with simvastatin, atorvastatin produced significantly greater (p < 0.0001) reductions from baseline in LDL cholesterol (37.2% vs 29.6%), total cholesterol (27.6% vs 21.5%), triglycerides (22.1% vs 16.0%), the ratio of LDL cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (41.1% vs 33.7%), and apolipoprotein B (28.3% vs 21.2%), and a comparable increase from baseline in HDL cholesterol (7.4% vs 6.9%). Atorvastatin was also significantly (p < 0.0001) more effective than simvastatin at treating the overall patient population to LDL cholesterol goals (55.6% vs 38.4%). Fewer than 6% of patients in either treatment group experienced drug-attributable adverse events, which were mostly mild to moderate in nature. Diabetic patients treated with either statin had safety characteristics similar to nondiabetics, with atorvastatin exhibiting superior efficacy to simvastatin. In conclusion, atorvastatin, at a dose of 10 mg/day, is more effective than simvastatin 10 mg/day at lowering lipids and reaching LDL cholesterol goals in patients with mixed dyslipidemia. Both statins are well tolerated with safety profiles similar to other members of the statin class.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11230855
This study examines the effect of simvastatin on progression of carotid artery stenosis and shows that the drug substantially reversed the anticipated disease development. This finding indicates that treatment with simvastatin may reduce the risk for stroke in patients with known carotid artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11231429
As a class, statins are remarkably effective in reducing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and several of these drugs have now been shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality. However, several important controversies in the use of statins remain to be answered by clinical trials. For example, it is controversial whether marked cholesterol reduction to levels below 100 mg/dL would further reduce the incidence of coronary heart disease. Furthermore, concerns about differences among statins for nonlipid effects has raised the concern that the assumption of a class effect is premature until head-to-head clinical trials are completed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11238162
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11238259
Long-term therapy with hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) has been shown to reduce levels of C-reactive protein (CRP). However, the generalizability, speed of onset, and dose-response characteristics of this effect are uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11238289
Coronary heart disease remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the industrialized world. Clinical and laboratory studies have shown that inflammation plays a major role in the initiation, progression, and destabilization of atheromas. C-Reactive protein (CRP), an acute phase reactant that reflects low-grade systemic inflammation, has been studied in a variety of cardiovascular diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11238469
All currently available, approved therapies for osteoporosis inhibit bone resorption. By acting at this site in the bone remodeling cycle, estrogens, selective estrogen receptor modulators, calcitonin, and the bisphosphonates all have the capacity to increase bone mineral density and to reduce the risk of new fractures. There can be no doubt that these agents have had an enormous impact on our diagnostic and therapeutic approach to osteoporosis. Despite their great value, the antiresorptives are generally not associated with dramatic increases in bone mass, and their action to reduce fracture risk, although highly significant, is rarely more than 50% of the baseline risk. Another approach is anabolic therapy, in which bone formation is directly stimulated. In this review we will summarize the anabolic agents that have been studied and present a current view of their current standing. Fluoride, GH, insulin-like growth factor I, the statins, and PTH will be reviewed. Although still in development, approaches to combination therapy with antiresorptives and anabolic agents are also promising.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11239793
The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG)-CoA reductase inhibitors, or statins, are potent inhibitors of cholesterol synthesis and large clinical trials have demonstrated that these agents reduce cholesterol and the incidence of cardiovascular diseases. Recent evidence, however, suggests that the beneficial effects of statins may extend beyond their effects on serum cholesterol levels. Because statins also inhibit the synthesis of isoprenoid intermediates in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway, they may have pleiotropic effects on vascular wall cells. In particular, the small GTP-binding protein, Rho, whose membrane localization and activity are affected by post-translational isoprenylation, may play an important role in mediating the direct vascular effects of statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11242427
Randomized trials have established statin treatment as secondary prevention in coronary artery disease, but it is unclear whether early treatment with statins following acute myocardial infarction (AMI) influences survival.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11244205
Dyslipemia as a risk factor for ischemic stroke and indications for statins in the prevention of ischemic stroke are revised. The role of cholesterol levels as a risk factor for ischemic stroke is controversial. This could be due to failures in the design of early epidemiological studies. Recent studies, however, do suggest a clearer risk relationship between cholesterol levels and ischemic stroke. Studies conducted on the prevention of ischemic heart disease (IHD) with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), using pravastatin and simvastatin, unequivocally show reductions in overall mortality, cardiovascular mortality, acute myocardial infarction and other coronary events. These studies show a reduction in the risk of ischemic stroke, and although relative risk reduction is great, absolute risk reduction is low; the reasons for this are analyzed. Apart from lipid mechanisms, statins act on the atheroma plaque; they have antithrombotic and possibly neuroprotecting properties. Statins reduce the number of strokes due to the decrease of atherothrombotic strokes, cardioembolic strokes secondary to IHD, and lacunar strokes related to atherothrombosis and probably to microatheromas. Although there are currently no specific studies available on the secondary prevention of stroke with statins, which are required to clarify certain points, according to European and American guidelines for prevention, statins would be indicated in the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic stroke, and in cardioembolic and lacunar stroke associated with clinical or silent atherosclerosis (IHD, peripheral artery disease). Patients with ischemic stroke of other etiologies, except for stroke in the young or other unusual causes, are patients with a high vascular risk (cardiac and cerebral) owing to the stroke itself, age and other vascular risk factors, and they should also be treated with statins, at least from the point of view of primary prevention of IHD. Natural statins (pravastatin and simvastatin) play an essential part in secondary prevention of ischemic stroke, together with antiaggregants, anticoagulants, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and the treatment of other vascular risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11245405
The idea that diseases such as cardiovascular disease and cancer can be prevented by taking a 'pill' is attractive to many people. Chemoprevention is an established method in the primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease such as myocardial infarct and stroke. Clinical trials have demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt that both fatal and non-fatal coronary events and strokes can be prevented. Antihypertensive drugs have been shown to be effective through clinical trials in preventing myocardial infarctions, stroke and other cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Statins are commonly used to lower the blood cholesterol concentration, and aspirin is widely used to prevent occlusive vascular disease. Aspirin and other non-steroidal antiinflammatory agents have shown promise in the chemoprevention of colorectal cancer. While observational epidemiological studies have consistently suggested that diets rich in antioxidants such as beta-carotene might be useful in preventing coronary heart disease and cancer, the published reports of randomized trials clearly indicate that beta-carotene supplements are of no value in persons of high risk for such conditions. Although the chemoprevention of cancer is decades behind that of cardiovascular disease, there is no reason to believe that progress in cancer chemoprevention will differ substantially from that in cardiovascular disease. Better understanding of the molecular steps critical to carcinogenesis should open new avenues for cancer chemoprevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11245504
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11249510
The objective of this article is to evaluate the roles of the lipid-lowering class of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) in reducing cardiovascular events and to review their mechanism of action based on in vitro and in vivo studies. The clinical outcome of 15 major clinical trials has been critically reviewed and summarised; all showed a high degree of efficacy and safety. Statins, either in active or prodrug forms, are potent inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, have good absorption rate and their bioavailability depends on their lipophobicity and concomitant use with meals. Abdominal discomfort is the most commonly reported adverse effect. Although the incidence is low, myopathy with or without rhabdomyolysis may be considered a serious adverse effect of statins. A combination of a statin with gemfibrozil seems to increase the risk of this adverse event, particularly in patients with renal impairment. Combination therapy with several other agents, frequently administered to cardiovascular patients, has also been reviewed. Statin therapy is considered highly cost effective in secondary prevention, but it is less cost effective in primary prevention. This factor may underline the rationale for developing other safe and effective agents with an improved cost effectiveness profile. The pleiotropic non-lipid lowering effects of statins may include their anti-oxidant and antithrombotic potential as well as restoration of endothelial function. Statins may also be beneficial in the treatment of osteoporosis. Fewer studies have investigated statins' effects on the quality of lipoprotein particles, the activities of cholesteryl ester transfer protein and lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase as well as their possible synergistic effects with n-3 fatty acids, anti-oxidants and aspirin in reducing cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11249778
Valspodar (PSC-833) is a derivative of cyclosporin but devoid of the immunosuppressive and nephrotoxic properties seen in cyclosporin A. It exhibited high affinity binding to Mdr1 P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and demonstrated multidrug resistance-reversing activity superior to cyclosporin A and verapamil both in vitro and in vivo. Preclinical and phase I/II clinical data have indicated that plasma levels of PSC-833 with multidrug resistance-reversing activities are achievable. Potent inhibition of intestinal, hepatobiliary and blood-brain barrier P-gp function has been demonstrated. Since valspodar is also a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A), dual interactions of this compound with P-gp and CYP3A are the basis for the pharmacokinetic interactions seen in preclinical and clinical studies. A new formulation of the drug has recently been developed with better oral bioavailability (60%) and less interindividual variability. The toxicity profiles of valspodar are acceptable and dose-limited by transient and reversible cerebellar ataxia. It has shown multidrug resistance-modulating activities towards acute myeloid leukemia, multiple myeloma and ovarian cancer in phase I/II clinical trials. Phase III studies with respect to these three diseases are ongoing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11249916
Statins appear to have several biologic effects beyond those of lipid metabolism, and we hypothesized that immunomodulating effects of statins are important for the beneficial effects of these medications after heart transplantation. Our findings suggest that pravastatin treatment reduces plasma markers of inflammation and improves peripheral endothelial function in heart transplant recipients, possibly contributing to the observed clinical benefits of statin treatment in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11252110
Cardiovascular disease, primarily coronary heart disease (CHD), outnumbers the next 16 causes of death in women combined. However, the long-held belief that heart disease in women has a more benign prognosis than in men has resulted in less aggressive diagnosis and management patterns. Appreciation of the differences between men and women in CHD risk factors and presentation can assist in treatment decisions. Although estrogen replacement offers substantial beneficial effects on lipid levels in postmenopausal women, the first 2 randomized trials of estrogen alone and estrogen plus progestin, the Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study and Estrogen Replacement and Atherosclerosis Study, observed no benefit in reducing risk of CHD death and nonfatal myocardial infarction and angiographic progression of CHD, respectively, in women with CHD. Available data show that lipid-lowering therapy reduces women's CHD risk and mortality but also indicate that a considerable proportion of women remains untreated or undertreated. Randomized trials of statins for primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease suggest that these agents are at least as effective for lowering coronary disease risk in women as in men. Therefore, statin drugs should be the drug of first choice for women with established CHD. Hypercholesterolemic postmenopausal women who require estrogen for menopausal symptoms may derive further reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and reductions in trigyceride levels with the addition of a statin drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11253464
Coronary heart disease is an affliction of the elderly: 84% of those who die from the disease are over 65 years of age. In patients over 55 years, the incidence of stroke more than doubles with each decade of life. The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, or statins, have been shown to lower cholesterol and lipids in both middle-aged and elderly patients in large clinical trials. Some statins have been shown to improve endothelial function and vasodilation and to normalize thrombin formation, which may be among the mechanisms involved in both coronary event and stroke prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11254756
Little is known about the effects of cholesterol-lowering agents in hypercholesterolemic patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). The aim of this study was to compare the changes induced by simvastatin and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) on cholesterol metabolism in patients with PBC and preserved liver function. Six patients with PBC were administered simvastatin (40 mg/day) for 30 days and, after a washout period of 30 days, ursodeoxycholic acid (600 mg/day) for 30 days. Serum levels of lathosterol, campesterol, 7 alpha-hydroxycholesterol, and 27-hydroxycholesterol were measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. During simvastatin administration, reduction of cholesterol levels (34% in 30 days) was paralleled by the decrease of lathosterol (55%), whereas concentrations of campesterol and of the two hydroxysterols were not substantially modified. During ursodeoxycholic acid administration, a trend toward a decrease of serum cholesterol concentrations was observed after only one year of treatment, and these changes were paralleled by the decrease of campesterol serum levels. Both simvastatin and UDCA were well tolerated, and a reduction of serum liver enzyme levels occurred with the latter. Simvastatin proved to be safe and effective in reducing serum cholesterol levels in patients with PBC by an inhibitory effect on cholesterol synthesis occurring within 24 h. --Del Puppo, M., M. Galli Kienle, A. Crosignani, M. L. Petroni, B. Amati, M. Zuin, and M. Podda. Cholesterol metabolism in primary biliary cirrhosis during simvastatin and UDCA administration. J. Lipid Res. 2001. 42: 437--441.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11254910
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of fluvastatin on the microcirculation of patients with hyperlipidaemia (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol > 160 mg/dL, triglycerides < 350 mg/dl) inadequately controlled by diet. After a dietary run-in of 4 weeks, patients were randomised in a double-blind study to receive fluvastatin 40 mg twice daily (n = 24) or placebo (n = 24) for 12 weeks. The effect on microcirculation was assessed using capillary microscopy and laser Doppler fluxmetry at the nailfold at baseline and at 6 and 12 weeks after initiation of therapy. Capillaroscopy showed that fluvastatin improved microcirculation, i.e. time to peak flow during postocclusive reactive hyperaemia dropped from 19.7 +/- 7.2 s at baseline to 12.3 +/- 9.5 s at week 6 (P < 0.01) and 10.6 +/- 6.5 s at week 12 (P < 0.0001). These results were confirmed using laser Doppler fluxmetry to study microcirculation in thermoregulatory capillaries at the same site. A significant decrease in total and LDL-cholesterol was achieved during fluvastatin therapy. In conclusion, fluvastatin therapy improves microcirculation in nutritive as well as thermoregulatory capillaries in hypercholesterolaemic patients within 6 weeks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11254911
We investigated the relation between serum lipids including oxidized LDL and the severity of coronary atherosclerosis. Serum lipids and oxidized LDL was measured in 62 men (33-66 years), who underwent diagnostic coronary angiography and sonography to measure the carotid intima-media thickness. LDL oxidation was found in chemical analyses to be due to conjugated fatty acids in cholesteryl esters and triglycerides. Regression analysis indicated that the carotid intima-media thickness and the ratio of LDL diene conjugation to LDL cholesterol (the ox-LDL:LDL ratio) were the only factors associated independently with the severity of coronary atherosclerosis. The patients with multi-vessel disease who did not use lipid lowering therapy had a 50% thicker carotid intima media (P = 0.030) and a 41% higher ox-LDL:LDL ratio (P = 0.020) than patients with normal vessels. Further, patients with multi-vessel disease on statin therapy had a 24% lower ox-LDL:LDL ratio than the subjects with multi-vessel disease who did not use lipid lowering drugs (P = 0.027), although the concentration of LDL cholesterol did not differ between the groups. This study supports the hypothesis that lipid oxidation plays a role in the development of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11254918
Statins have a variable response on fibrinogen, and these changes may have implications on cardiovascular events. In this randomized placebo-controlled crossover study, we evaluated whether changes in fibrinogen levels were different between atorvastatin and other statin-treated patients. Adult coronary heart disease (CHD) patients aged 39-83 years with LDL cholesterol levels > or = 130 mg/dl were randomized to atorvastatin 80 mg (n = 84) and one of the following statins: fluvastatin 80 mg (n = 23), lovastatin 80 mg (n = 20), pravastatin 40 mg (n = 22) or simvastatin 40 mg (n = 20) each for 12 weeks in either order. Fibrinogen was analyzed by an automated method of Clauss. Three independently acquired samples were obtained within 1 min of tourniquet application, and each specimen was measured in duplicate. Statistical analyses were performed using a mixed model repeated measures analysis of variance procedure with SAS version 6.12. There were no significant changes in fibrinogen between treatment groups. This study evaluated changes in fibrinogen with established pre-analytical and analytical procedures known to minimize variability in fibrinogen measurement, and we did not observe any differences in fibrinogen levels in the treatment groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11257264
Human serum paraoxonase (PON1) is a high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-associated enzyme that is responsible for the protective effect of HDL against oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL). PON1 has a Glu to Arg polymorphism at codon 192 (CGA-->CAA) which is designated R/Q192. The R/Q192 polymorphism has been associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) in several, but not all, case-control studies. We prospectively studied the association of the Q/R192 genotypes with the severity, progression and regression of CAD, plasma lipid levels, clinical events and response to treatment with fluvastatin in a well-characterized cohort. Genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction mapping with AlwI enzyme in 356 subjects in the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS). Fasting plasma lipids were measured and quantitative coronary angiograms were obtained at baseline and 2.5 years following randomization to fluvastatin or placebo. A total of 177 (50%), 142 (40%) and 37 (10%) subjects had Q/Q, Q/R and R/R genotypes, respectively. Baseline and final plasma levels of HDL, LDL, triglyceride and other lipoproteins, lesion-specific minimum lumen diameters (MLD), mean MLD, number of coronary lesions and total occlusions at baseline and follow-up and clinical event rates were not significantly different among the genotypes. There was no genotype-treatment interaction with respect to plasma lipid levels and angiographic indices of CAD. The Q/R192 variants of PON1 are not associated with severity, progression or regression of coronary atherosclerosis, plasma lipid levels, clinical events, or response to treatment with fluvastatin. Thus, the Q/R192 polymorphism is not a major risk factor in susceptibility to CAD in the LCAS population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11257816
To determine the differences in prescribing advice for statines in primary cardiovascular prevention, applying different protocols, in a first-line setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11258146
The coordinator of care function is one of the most important roles played by primary care physicians. This role is essential for efficient delivery of healthcare to patients with unfocused medical problems.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11259136
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11259143
The principal aim of the second EUROASPIRE survey was to determine in patients with established coronary heart disease whether the Joint European Societies' recommendations on coronary prevention are being followed in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11259146
Aims Platelets play a central role in the restenosis process by inducing neointimal proliferation after coronary interventions. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Pl(A2)polymorphism has been associated with the occurrence of acute coronary syndromes and increased restenosis rates. Statins have been shown to exert potent antiproliferative, antiinflammatory and antithrombotic properties, thereby potentially interfering with the major processes of in-stent restenosis. Therefore, we sought to find out whether statin therapy interferes with restenosis and clinical outcome at 6 months following successful coronary stent implantation in the presence or absence of the Pl(A2)allele. Methods and Results Six hundred and fifty consecutive patients were followed for 6 months after coronary stent insertion. Carriers of the Pl(A2)allele demonstrated a significantly increased restenosis rate, which was abrogated by statin therapy (50.9% vs 28.6%, P=0.01). Moreover, statin therapy was associated with a significant reduction (28.2% vs 49.3%, P<0.01) in the occurrence of major adverse coronary events (myocardial infarction, cardiac death, target vessel revascularization) in the 6 months after the intervention in patients with the Pl(A2)allele. Conclusion Statin therapy reduces increased stent restenosis rates and improves clinical outcome following coronary stent implantation in patients bearing the Pl(A2)allele, suggesting that statins interfere with the functional consequence of a genetically determined platelet-mediated risk factor associated with Pl(A2)polymorphism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11259687
Cardiovascular disease is strongly age-related, and is the leading cause of death in older people. Several well-publicized trials have recently reported that statin drugs (HMG CoA reductase inhibitors) are effective in lowering cholesterol and in reducing the risk of myocardial infarction and stroke. In order to determine whether the results of these trials are relevant to our ageing population, we examined the representation of older people and women in randomized controlled trials of statin drugs. A systematic search of the medical literature from 1990 to 1999 was done to identify randomized placebo-controlled trials of statin drugs which evaluated clinical end-points-myocardial infarction, stroke or death. We identified 19 trials: 15 secondary prevention and four primary prevention. The mean age, age range and gender of the participants in these trials were determined. In the secondary prevention trials, the total number of patients randomized was 31683, with a combined mean age of 58.1 years. No trial enrolled people beyond the age of 75 years, and only 23% of the trial population was female. The four primary prevention trials randomized a combined total of 14 557 subjects with a mean age of 56.9 years. Only 10% of study participants were female. Statin drug trials have suffered from age and gender bias, having been mainly conducted in middle-aged male populations. The extrapolation of evidence from these trials to older people and women needs further evaluation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11259986
Lacidipine, a long acting 2, 4-dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist is frequently administered with cholesterol lowering agents, particularly in elderly populations. The effects of lacidipine on the pharmacokinetics of simvastatin were investigated, since they share the CYP3A4 pathway for metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11260410
Hypercholesterolemia may affect both endothelial function and arterial distensibility (DC). Renal transplant recipients (NTX) exhibit advanced structural and functional alterations of arterial vessel walls. The aim of this double-blind, randomized trial was to evaluate the effects of fluvastatin (FLU) on brachial artery flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) and DC in hypercholesterolemic NTX.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11260433
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11261530
To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, clinical safety and efficacy, drug interactions, and therapeutic issues related to the use of orlistat for treatment of obesity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11263601
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11263847
Used as a substitute for normal dietary intake of saturated fatty acids, margarines containing plant sterols can cause a modest reduction in serum total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. They have been shown effective in patients with mild hypercholesterolemia, but they are also useful in the general population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11267254
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11267373
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11270314
Statins have proved to be safe and effective in the secondary prevention of coronary artery disease, but the level of prescription and the reasons for nonadherence to treatment in many coronary diseases treatment centers has not been determined. The purpose of this study was to identify reasons for nonadherence to statin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11270938
Hypercholesterolaemia is a chronic condition that often requires life-long treatment, making the safety of lipid-lowering drugs a critical issue. 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors ('statins') are commonly used as the pharmacotherapeutic treatment of choice for patients with hypercholesterolaemia. These agents have consistently demonstrated a positive safety and tolerability profile, and are recommended by the US National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines and by the European Joint Task Force for Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease to be used after, or in addition to, a first-line approach with diet. Several large-scale clinical trials have shown HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors to be efficacious and well tolerated, and to be associated with a low rate of treatment withdrawal due to adverse events. These studies included mortality and morbidity end-points, and comprised both primary- and secondary-prevention trials. Hepatic, renal and muscular systems are rarely affected during HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy and the few drug interactions that can occur with concomitantly administered drugs are well documented. There is no conclusive evidence linking HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors to the development of cancer in humans. In long term studies with various HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, there was no increase in cancer rates compared with placebo. Thus, it can be concluded that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are well tolerated, effective treatments for hypercholesterolaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11274247
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11276395
Clinical trials continue to guide patient management. However, the hypotheses generally come from observational studies. Studies on women continue to be too little and too few, particularly in light of the fact that most elderly hypertensive patients are likely to be women. Attention has been drawn to the possibility that hypertension per se may engender symptoms such as headache for example, in addition to harder endpoints such as death. The MICROHOPE study, which was not a blood pressure-lowering study, showed that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition with ramipril in diabetic patients provided the same beneficial effects previously published for the HOPE study. The doxazosin arm of the ALLHAT study was terminated by the data monitoring and safety board because the doxazosin-treated patients developed congestive heart failure at a greater rate than diuretic-treated patients. Two extensive studies testing two different classes of calcium antagonists against primarily diuretic-based treatment showed that the calcium antagonists were no less effective in terms of preventing hard endpoints. A small, but impressive cross-over study testing the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, pravastatin, against placebo showed that statin treatment lowers blood pressure in hypercholesterolemic patients with hypertension. Meta- analyses emphasized the value of blood pressure reduction in the elderly and added to the controversy and confusion about the role of calcium antagonists in the first-line treatment of hypertension. The point may be moot since with the current recommendations few hypertensive patients will be adequately treated with a single agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11277469
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11277825
Patients experience the highest rate of death and recurrent ischemic events during the early period after an acute coronary syndrome, but it is not known whether early initiation of treatment with a statin can reduce the occurrence of these early events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11279658
Eight of 35 patients with cancer receiving COL-3, a tetracycline derivative with antiangiogenic properties, developed anemia while on treatment. All of these patients were enrolled on an approved Phase I clinical trial at the National Cancer Institute. Three of these patients had bone marrow examinations that revealed ringed sideroblasts. This paper describes these cases. Am. J. Hematol. 67:51-53, 2001. Published 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11281812
Treatment of dementia can be divided as symptomatic treatment of cognitive or non-cognitive symptoms and the treatment of underlying pathology. In the last decade the thrust of symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been enhancement of cholinergic transmission. Besides the acetycholinesterase inhibitors (AChE-I) currently in use, cholinergic agonists and enhancers are in development. Other therapeutic approaches directed towards neurotransmitter substitution or modulation include serotoninergic, noradrenergic substances, neuropeptides and those acting via excitatory amino acid receptors, such as ampakines or NMDA antagonists. Introduction of atypical neuroleptics represents the most recent development in the treatment of behavioural symptoms. Efforts to treat the underlying pathology are based on modulation of APP processing in order to decrease the accumulation of beta-amyloid, those to decrease tau hyperphosphorylation, use of nerve growth factors and those based on Apo-E modulation. Potential use of oestrogens and NSAIDs are also under investigation. Recently, vaccination with amyloid-beta peptide has been reported to be effective in an animal model of AD, this putative vaccine is now in clinical trials. Likewise, recent studies suggest that some statins may have a prophylactic effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11281851
Concurrent with the spread of the western lifestyle, the prevalence of all types of diabetes is on the rise in the world's population. The number of diabetics is increasing by 4-5% per year with an estimated 40-45% of individual's over the age of 65 years having either type II diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance. Since the signs of diabetes are not immediately obvious, diagnosis can be preceded by an extended period of impaired glucose tolerance resulting in the prevalence of beta-cell dysfunction and macrovascular complications. In addition to increased medical vigilance, diabetes is being combatted through aggressive treatment directed at lowering circulating blood glucose and inhibiting postprandial hyperglycemic spikes. Current strategies to treat diabetes include reducing insulin resistance using glitazones, supplementing insulin supplies with exogenous insulin, increasing endogenous insulin production with sulfonylureas and meglitinides, reducing hepatic glucose production through biguanides, and limiting postprandial glucose absorption with alpha-glucosidase inhibitors. In all of these areas, new generations of small molecules are being investigated which exhibit improved efficacy and safety profiles. Promising biological targets are also emerging such as (1) insulin sensitizers including protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B (PTP-1B) and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3), (2) inhibitors of gluconeogenesis like pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDH) inhibitors, (3) lipolysis inhibitors, (4) fat oxidation including carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT) I and II inhibitors, and (5) energy expenditure by means of beta 3-adrenoceptor agonists. Also important are alternative routes of glucose disposal such as Na+-glucose cotransporter (SGLT) inhibitors, combination therapies, and the treatment of diabetic complications (eg. retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy). With may new opportunities for drug discovery, the prospects are excellent for development of innovative therapies to effectively manage diabetes and prevent its long term complications. This review highlights recent (1997-2000) advances in diabetes therapy and research with an emphasis on small molecule drug design (275 references).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11282901
Statins reduce cardiovascular events and progression of carotid intima-media thickness (IMT). beta-Blockers are also known to reduce cardiovascular events, but less is known about their effects on carotid IMT.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11282915
Inflammation plays a major role in atherothrombosis, and measurement of inflammatory markers such as high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (HSCRP) may provide a novel method for detecting individuals at high risk of plaque rupture. Several large-scale prospective studies demonstrate that HSCRP is a strong independent predictor of future myocardial infarction and stroke among apparently healthy men and women and that the addition of HSCRP to standard lipid screening may improve global risk prediction among those with high as well as low cholesterol levels. Because agents such as aspirin and statins seem to attenuate inflammatory risk, HSCRP may also have utility in targeting proven therapies for primary prevention. Inexpensive commercial assays for HSCRP are now available; they have shown variability and classification accuracy similar to that of cholesterol screening. Risk prediction algorithms using a simple quintile approach to HSCRP evaluation have been developed for outpatient use. Thus, although limitations inherent to inflammatory screening remain, available data suggest that HSCRP has the potential to play an important role as an adjunct for global risk assessment in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11285042
Type 2 diabetes increases the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) two- to fourfold compared with the risk in non-diabetic subjects. Although type 2 diabetes is associated with a clustering of risk factors (small, dense low-density lipoprotein [LDL] particles, low high-density lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol, high triglycerides, elevated blood pressure, obesity, central obesity, hyperinsulinaemia, hyperglycaemia, etc.), the cause for an excess risk of CVD remains unknown. Recent drug treatment trials have indicated that the lowering of total and LDL cholesterol and blood pressure is similarly beneficial in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects. The treatment of hyperglycaemia reduces micro- and macrovascular complications in type 2 diabetic patients. Beta-blocking agents, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, aspirin, and thrombolytic therapy are also effective in the treatment of CVD amongst diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11285716
The beneficial effects of lipid-lowering therapy for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) have been conclusively demonstrated in large-scale clinical trials. Does more aggressive lipid lowering provide even greater clinical benefit? The post coronary artery bypass graft (post-CABG) study was the first angiographic trial to show that aggressive lipid-lowering therapy was more effective at reducing disease progression than conventional approaches to cholesterol management. Recently, the results of the atorvastatin versus revascularization treatments (AVERT) trial have also shown significant benefit on clinical events with aggressive lipid lowering. A total of 341 patients with stable CHD were randomly assigned to receive medical therapy with atorvastatin 80 mg/day plus conventional treatment or angioplasty followed by usual care. Atorvastatin therapy resulted in a 46% reduction in the mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level compared with an 18% decrease for patients in the angioplasty/usual care group. Patients treated with atorvastatin had fewer ischemic events compared with those who had angioplasty (13 vs. 21%, P = 0.048) and a significantly greater time to first ischemic event (P = 0.027). AVERT is the first clinical study demonstrating that patients with stable CHD achieve significant cardiovascular benefit by aggressively lowering cholesterol levels with atorvastatin. It would therefore appear that an aggressive approach to lipid-lowering therapy is beneficial in patients with existing CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11286151
The efficacy of statins in lowering the total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and reducing the risk of cardiac events is now well established. The secondary prevention studies started treatment several months after the acute event. However, the greatest risk of recurrence is shortly after the index event. Recent evidence from small-scale clinical trials shows that standard doses of statins can be both safe and effective when given early after an acute coronary event, including early after thrombolytic therapy for myocardial infarction. Angiographic studies have shown beneficial effects of pravastatin on coronary stenosis when initiated after a coronary event. While none of these studies have been powered to demonstrate an effect on outcome, each has shown a reduction in major cardiovascular events. Two large observational studies have shown a reduction in 6- and 12-month risk-adjusted mortality among post-MI patients treated early with statins. Large-scale trials of all statins are now in progress to evaluate further the efficacy of early initiation of statin therapy in acute coronary syndromes. The largest of these is the Australian Pravastatin Acute Coronary Treatment (PACT) study, which will compare early outcomes in patients treated with pravastatin versus placebo prescribed within the first 24 h of an acute coronary event.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11286152
Five large randomized clinical trials show the benefits of lipid lowering with statins on cardiac morbidity and mortality. Three of these were secondary-prevention trials--the Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischemic Disease (LIPID) study, Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE), and Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S). The CARE and LIPID studies, performed with pravastatin, comprise populations that are representative of the majority of patients with coronary disease in that they included subjects with 'average' cholesterol levels. The 4S study, using simvastatin, comprised a patient population with elevated lipid levels. Pooled data from three trials, CARE, LIPID, and the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS), were examined in the Pravastatin Pooling Project (PPP). Individual patient data from these three event trials were pooled into a single database, permitting subgroup analyses and providing increased power. In the PPP, pravastatin-treated patients had significantly lower all-cause mortality (7.9, vs. 9.8% in those receiving placebo, a relative risk reduction of 20%). Pravastatin treatment was associated with a significant 24% reduction in CHD mortality and a nonsignificant difference in other vascular deaths (17%) and noncardiovascular deaths (12%). However, the reductions in absolute risk were much larger in those with a history of coronary heart disease than in those without. In the combined analysis of CARE and LIPID, there was also a uniform relative risk reduction in both men and women. In high-risk groups such as diabetics, smokers, hypertensives, and the elderly, there were also significant risk reductions in clinical end points. Finally, in the 598 participants, who had a stroke (90% of which were non-fatal), CARE and LIPID individually demonstrated reductions in non-fatal and total stroke. These data confirm that benefits of treatment in secondary prevention of coronary heart disease encompasses prevention of stroke as well as coronary heart disease events. The benefits are found in those who have had unstable angina as well as myocardial infarction. These findings strengthen even further the case for much more widespread use of statins in secondary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11286153
Five large randomized trials of statins in primary and secondary prevention show the benefits of lipid-modifying therapy on cardiac morbidity and mortality. Evidence is beginning to accumulate showing that early and aggressive treatment of patients with acute coronary syndromes (acute myocardial infarction or unstable angina) can result in reduced mortality and morbidity and imparts a variety of mechanistic benefits. Nevertheless, recent surveys of coronary heart disease prevention in Europe and the US indicate that current evidence-based management of risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia is not uniformly employed. In fact, in Europe, only about a third of patients discharged from the hospital after an acute coronary syndrome are receiving prescriptions for statins. In US, more than a fourth of adults are eligible for treatment according to national guidelines but two thirds of them do not receive it. Among those treated, a considerable number do not reach their target levels. Therefore, strategies are needed to improve prescribing patterns among physicians and compliance among patients. It is essential that clinicians be aware of the evidence base supporting early and aggressive treatment of patients with acute coronary syndromes and that this is communicated to all clinicians involved in their care of patients with acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11286466
Chemotherapy is not effective for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HMG-CoA redutase inhibitors have cytostatic activity for cancer cells, but their clinical usefulness is unknown. To investigate whether pravastatin, a potent HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, prolongs survival in patients with advanced HCC, this randomized controlled trial was conducted between February 1990 and February 1998 at Osaka University Hospital. 91 consecutive patients <71 years old (mean age 62) with unresectable HCC were enroled in this study. 8 patients were withdrawn because of progressive liver dysfunction; 83 patients were randomized to standard treatment with or without pravastatin. All patients underwent transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) followed by oral 5-FU 200 mg(-1)d for 2 months. Patients were then randomly assigned to control (n = 42) and pravastatin (n = 41) groups. Pravastatin was administered at a daily dose of 40 mg. The effect of pravastatin on tumour growth was assessed by ultrasonography. Primary endpoint was death due to progression of HCC. The duration of pravastatin administration was 16.5 +/- 9.8 months (mean +/- SD). No patients in either group were lost to follow-up. Median survival was 18 months in the pravastatin group versus 9 months in controls (P = 0.006). The Cox proportional hazards model showed that pravastatin was a significant factor contributing to survival. Pravastatin prolonged the survival of patients with advanced HCC, suggesting its value for adjuvant treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11286949
To examine the efficacy and safety of colesevelam hydrochloride, a novel, nonsystemic, lipid-lowering agent, when coadministered with starting doses of simvastatin in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11288962
Hypertension is a major problem throughout the developed world. Although current antihypertensive treatment regimens reduce morbidity and mortality, patients are often noncompliant, and medications may not completely normalize blood pressure. As a result, current therapy frequently does not prevent or reverse the cardiovascular remodeling that often occurs when blood pressure is chronically elevated. Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is effective in controlling hypertension and treating congestive heart failure. Both angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) inhibit the activity of the RAS, but these two classes of antihypertensive medications have different mechanisms of action and different pharmacologic profiles. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors block a single pathway in the production of angiotensin II (Ang II). In addition, angiotensin I is not the only substrate for ACE. The ACE inhibitors also block the degradation of bradykinin that may have potential benefits in cardiovascular disease. Bradykinin is, however, the presumed cause of cough associated with ACE inhibitor therapy. Data from clinical trials on ACE inhibitors serve to support the involvement of the RAS in the development of cardiovascular disease. Angiotensin receptor blockers act distally in the RAS to block the Ang II type 1 (AT1) receptor selectively. Thus, ARBs are more specific agents and avoid many side effects. Experimental and clinical trials have documented the efficacy of ARBs in preserving target-organ function and reversing cardiovascular remodeling. In some instances, maximal benefit may be obtained with Ang II blockade using both ARBs and ACE inhibitors. This review describes clinical trials that document the efficacy of ARBs in protecting the myocardium, blood vessels, and renal vasculature.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11291836
Lovastatin, an inhibitor of mevalonate synthesis, demonstrated in vitro antitumor activity against a variety of human cancer cells, especially in gastric adenocarcinoma cells at pharmacologically achievable concentrations. To determine the antitumor activity of this drug in advanced measurable gastric adenocarcinoma as well as to assess the toxicities and the pharmacokinetic features, we carried out a phase II study of high-dose lovastatin. Patients received lovastatin 35 mg/kg/day for 7 consecutive days, with ubiquinone (60 mg qid p.o.) to prevent rhabdomyolysis. The treatment was repeated every 28 days. From March 1996 to January 1997, 16 patients (median age, 57 years; range, 34-68) were entered into the study, 14 of whom were evaluated for response and toxicity. No patient achieved a response. A total of 28 cycles were administered. The median number of cycles was 2 (range, 1 to 4). Anorexia was the most common toxicity (64%), but decreased oral intake was observed only in 3 cycles. Two patients developed myalgia with elevated muscle enzyme. When used in this dosage and schedule, lovastatin does not appear to be effective for patients with advanced gastric adenocarcinoma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11293392
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11293393
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11293552
At high doses, the pharmacokinetics of fluvastatin immediate-release (IR) are nonlinear, possibly due to saturation of hepatic uptake. Fluvastatin delivery to the liver in a slower but sustained fashion would be expected to avoid hepatic saturation without elevating systemic drug levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11293560
Previous health economic studies have demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of simvastatin in the treatment of coronary heart disease (CHD) based on clinical results of the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study. A prior analysis evaluated the "cost of getting to goal," but ignored all costs after titration. However, when evaluating the cost-effectiveness of long-term therapies, it is important to consider the maintenance costs as well.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11293642
Patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) are the top priority for preventive cardiology. The first EUROASPIRE survey among patients with established CHD in nine countries in 1995-96 showed substantial potential for risk reduction. A second survey (EUROASPIRE II) was done in 1999-2000 in the same countries to see whether preventive cardiology had improved since the first. We compared the proportion of patients in both studies who achieved the lifestyle, risk-factor, and therapeutic goals recommended by the Joint European Societies report on coronary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11295953
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11295957
Four large trials have shown cholesterol-reduction therapy to be effective for primary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11295958
Adverse drug events (ADEs) are a major cause of morbidity and mortality, and even minor ADEs may adversely affect patients' compliance with treatment. Because most ADEs are dose-related phenomena, adjusting drug dosages to account for individual patients' needs and tolerances is fundamental to good therapeutics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11296612
The treatment of hyperlipidemia in patients infected with HIV is discussed. Hyperlipidemia is common in HIV-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy, especially protease inhibitors and stavudine. The recommendations of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) may not entirely apply to HIV-infected patients. The pathogenesis of hyperlipidemia in these patients may make them refractory to traditional pharmacotherapy, and NCEP's emphasis on diet and exercise may be unrealistic. Other factors that may complicate treatment of hyperlipidemia include metabolism of many antiretroviral drugs by the cytochrome P-450 isoenzyme system, polypharmacy, and drug-food interactions. A patient's cardiac risk should first be assessed. Nonpharmacologic measures, such as a low-fat diet, weight reduction, and exercise, should be considered. Drug therapy is indicated for patients with familial combined hyperlipidemia that is associated with atherogenesis and for patients with triglyceride concentrations exceeding 1000 mg/dL. Drug therapy for hyperlipidemia involves niacin and statins, in addition to fibric acid derivatives and probucol. Switching among antiretroviral agents when one is found to cause hyperlipidemia should be done cautiously because of the risk for viral rebound and disease progression. NCEP guidelines recommend monitoring low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol levels four to six weeks after the start of lipid-lowering therapy and then at three months; more frequent monitoring may be necessary in HIV-infected patients. The treatment of hyperlipidemia in HIV-infected patients is complicated by their need for antiretroviral drugs, which can themselves contribute to lipid disorders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11300446
We investigated whether improvement of endothelial dysfunction in hypercholesterolemia can be achieved with short-term lipid-lowering therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11302109
The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of a low-dose pravastatin regimen (20 mg daily) in patients with myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11302410
To review recent clinical trials that evaluate the most appropriate therapeutic options for delaying the progression of nephropathy in type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11302415
Assess efficacy, safety, and cost of alternate-day dosing with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (HRIs).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11303007
Omega-3 fatty acids, such as those present in fish oil, have been reported to prolong life in myocardial infarction survivors. These fatty acids can decrease serum triglyceride concentrations, but so far the doses used in trials examining their effects on coronary end points have had only minimal triglyceride lowering effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11303693
This article aims to review lessons learned about lipid lowering and statins in the past decade and to consider what developments the future may hold. Results from a series of landmark clinical trials confirm that statins significantly reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with and without previous coronary artery disease. The potential of this drug class has yet to be fully explored. Studies currently under way will answer many of the outstanding questions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11305526
About half of patients presenting with myocardial infarction do not have the "classic" risk factors. This has stimulated a search for other factors that may be responsible and, when present, may help to predict which patients are at greatest risk for myocardial infarction and other cardiovascular events. With improved understanding of the pathogenesis of ischemic cardiovascular disease, we have gleaned new insights into potential markers of underlying atherosclerosis and cardiovascular risk. In recent years, data suggesting that certain markers of inflammation--both systemic and local--play a key role in the development and progression of atherosclerosis, and in its final clinical complications have accumulated. Specifically, elevated levels of one systemic marker of inflammation, C-reactive protein (CRP), are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease events. Among several markers of systemic inflammation, CRP shows the strongest associations with vascular events, and the addition of CRP to total cholesterol dramatically improves risk prediction. CRP fulfils most of the requirements needed to serve as a new risk factor, but still several issues await further confirmation and clarification before this marker can ultimately be included in the routine risk profile. Moreover, potentially important associations have been established between elevated CRP levels and increased efficacy of established therapies, in particular lipid-lowering therapy with statins; CRP testing may enable us to tailor expensive cardiovascular medication to the individual patient. Such an improved prescription strategy might be especially valuable in the primary care setting where the absolute cardiovascular risk is considerably lower compared to that in secondary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11305529
Elevated plasma concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP) are associated with increased cardiovascular risk. We studied the cost-effectiveness of CRP determination in primary and secondary prevention settings in two European countries: Germany and Italy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11305530
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a very strong acute phase protein. During the acute phase of disease the CRP concentration can increase up to a thousand-fold. However, a higher CRP concentration is also observed during chronic stages of disease, for example in subjects with chronic bronchitis, periodontal disease or subjects with increased titers of Helicobacter pylori or Chlamydia pneumoniae. The concentration of CRP is also reported to be associated with age, sex, race, smoking, obesity, consumption of coffee and alcohol, stress, physical training, lipid levels, and blood pressure. Statins decrease the CRP concentration whereas estrogen increases it. With regard to most other drugs no consistent relationship has been reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11305994
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11306519
Prospective studies indicate that baseline levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), the prototypic marker of inflammation, are associated with an increased risk for cardiovascular events. Limited studies have examined therapies that influence high-sensitive CRP (hs-CRP) levels, especially in hyperlipidemic patients. Thus, we tested the effects of 3 hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), simvastatin (20 mg/d), pravastatin (40 mg/d), and atorvastatin (10 mg/d), on levels of hs-CRP in a randomized, double-blind, crossover trial of 22 patients with combined hyperlipidemia (LDL cholesterol >130 mg/dL and triglycerides of 200 to 600 mg/dL).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11306521
Although HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (HMGRIs) are effective lipid-lowering agents, it remains controversial whether these agents also lower dense LDL (dLDL), a predominance of which is considered to contribute to the atherogenicity of the metabolic syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11307620
Induction of differentiation is an attractive approach to the management of infiltrative tumors such as malignant glioma. Here, we report that lovastatin and phenylacetate induce apoptosis, but fail to induce differentiation, in malignant glioma cell lines and untransformed rat astrocytes. Lovastatin and phenylacetate promote p21 accumulation but fail to induce cell cycle arrest. BCL-2 gene transfer inhibits apoptosis induced by lovastatin but not apoptosis induced by phenylacetate. Wild-type p53 gene transfer promotes lovastatin-induced apoptosis in p53 wild-type LN-229 cells but not in p53 mutant T98G cells. Phenylacetate-induced apoptosis is attenuated by wild-type p53 gene transfer in both cell lines. Neither lovastatin nor phenylacetate modulate glioma cell sensitivity to CD95 ligand-induced apoptosis or cancer chemotherapy. Thus, this study provides no rationale for clinical trials of lovastatin or phenylacetate in the differentiation therapy of malignant glioma. We conclude that neoplastic glioma cells as well as untransformed rat astrocytes are refractory to the induction of differentiation by lovastatin and phenylacetate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11309029
Bexarotene (Targretin, LGD1069) is a novel synthetic retinoid analogue that binds selectively to retinoid X receptors. We describe eight previously treated patients who entered phase II international multicentre studies examining the role of bexarotene in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Patients received either the oral formulation (n = 7) or the topical gel (n = 1). Of the seven patients who received 300 mg/m2 per day capsules, five (71%) achieved a partial response, with mean time to onset of response of 27 days (range, 20-29) with responses persisting for a mean of 92 days (range, 57-115). The single patient receiving the topical preparation (stage IB) remains in partial response at 31 months. The major toxicity with oral administration was hypertriglyceridaemia requiring therapy. Bexarotene capsules and gel are active and generally well-tolerated agents in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and studies examining its role in previously untreated patients or as part of combination therapy are warranted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11310195
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11310513
To evaluate short-term outcomes when atorvastatin was substituted for pravastatin or simvastatin in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11311587
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11315826
Hypertension (HTN) is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) in the setting of diabetes. There is no consensus on how best to treat hypertension among those with diabetes. Here we describe the characteristics of a cohort of hypertensive adults with diabetes who are part of a large prospective blood pressure study. This study will help clarify the treatment of HTN in the setting of diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11317474
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors have been suggested as agents to reduce the biliary cholesterol saturation index (CSI) in duodenal bile and therefore might be supportive in primary or secondary prevention of gallstones. However, the efficiency of the therapy seems to depend on both the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor used and the study population selected.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11317478
The pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability of cerivastatin, a synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor were studied in 49 healthy volunteers. In this double-blind, parallel group, multiple-dose study, volunteers were randomized as age-matched, male-female pairs and stratified into younger (18-65 years, premenopausal females) or older (65-85 years, postmenopausal females) groups. Thirty-two (16 female, 16 male) subjects received 0.2 mg cerivastatin daily for 7 days; 17 received placebo. Between all males and females, no differences in cerivastatin pharmacokinetics were observed. The AUCnorm in older females was 21% higher than in older males, while the AUCnorm in younger females was 26% lower than in younger males. The Cmax in older females was 30% higher than in age-matched males or younger males and females. All other pharmacokinetic parameters, including half-life, tmax, accumulation ratios, and steady state plasma levels were similar in all treatment groups. The most common adverse events, including headache (4), dyspepsia (4), and rash (4), were equally distributed between groups. Treatment-emergent elevations (< 2 x ULN) in creatine kinase occurred in one subject. Transaminase elevations occurred in nine subjects, most were less than 3 x ULN, and were equally distributed between groups. In conclusion, cerivastatin was well tolerated. The minor differences in the pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin 0.2 mg between genders does not require modification of dosage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11317483
To estimate the risk of peripheral neuropathy associated with use of lipid-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11318080
Use of cholesterol-lowering regimens has been shown to reduce the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD), both in primary and secondary prevention. However, there have been few studies of the relative benefits and risks of the various cholesterol-lowering agents in patient groups with specific risk factors for CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11320358
Electron beam tomography (EBT) is a noninvasive technique that allows the study of the entire coronary artery tree during a brief imaging session without the injection of any contrast media. Atherosclerosis is identified vicariously through the visualization of coronary calcific deposits. Quantitative assessments of calcium burden, such as calcium volume scores, have been shown to be a useful means to assess treatment-related changes in the extent of atherosclerotic plaques. Historically, the elderly female population has received less medical recognition regarding the risk and severity of coronary heart disease (CHD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11320359
The objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of pravastatin therapy in survivors of myocardial infarction with average cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11320369
Persistent activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system (RAAS) is known to occur in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) despite treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE) therapy. When added to ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) antagonists may allow more complete blockade of the RAAS and preserve the beneficial effects of bradykinin accumulation not seen with AT1 receptor blockade alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11320381
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11321864
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11322858
The natural oestrogen, 17 beta-oestradiol, has been implicated in protection from atherosclerosis, a chronic systemic vascular disease with an inflammatory component accounting for the majority of morbidity and mortality in Western countries. Despite the protective effects of 17 beta-oestradiol in premenopausal women and experimental evidence demonstrating inhibitory effects of oestrogen on atherosclerosis progression, it is currently unclear whether hormone replacement therapy can affect cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in postmenopausal women. The recent advances in understanding the mechanisms of oestrogen action demonstrated roles for different oestrogen receptors and oestrogen metabolites in the pathogenesis of vascular injury and endothelial cell dysfunction. However, their respective role in the process of atherogenesis remains yet to be elucidated. Moreover, the availability of novel drugs with tissue- and/or receptor-specific actions will help to understand the role of oestrogen in cardiovascular diseases. Several ongoing large-scale clinical trials using opposed or unopposed replacement therapy with natural or synthetic oestrogens, or selective oestrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) will resolve the question whether the drugs currently available have therapeutic potential to interfere with the progression of atherosclerosis and its complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11324372
Recent clinical trials of primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease have demonstrated that lowering plasma cholesterol with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors ('statins') reduces morbidity and mortality from coronary heart disease in diverse patient populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11324679
The first macrolide, erythromycin A, demonstrated broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity and was used primarily for respiratory and skin and soft tissue infections. Newer 14-, 15- and 16-membered ring macrolides such as clarithromycin and the azalide, azithromycin, have been developed to address the limitations of erythromycin. The main structural component of the macrolides is a large lactone ring that varies in size from 12 to 16 atoms. A new group of 14-membered macrolides known as the ketolides have recently been developed which have a 3-keto in place of the L-cladinose moiety. Macrolides reversibly bind to the 23S rRNA and thus, inhibit protein synthesis by blocking elongation. The ketolides have also been reported to bind to 23S rRNA and their mechanism of action is similar to that of macrolides. Macrolide resistance mechanisms include target site alteration, alteration in antibiotic transport and modification of the antibiotic. The macrolides and ketolides exhibit good activity against gram-positive aerobes and some gram-negative aerobes. Ketolides have excellent activity versus macrolide-resistant Streptococcus spp. Including mefA and ermB producing Streptococcus pneumoniae. The newer macrolides, such as azithromycin and clarithromycin, and the ketolides exhibit greater activity against Haemophilus influenzae than erythromycin. The bioavailability of macrolides ranges from 25 to 85%, with corresponding serum concentrations ranging from 0.4 to 12 mg/L and area under the concentration-time curves from 3 to 115 mg/L x h. Half-lives range from short for erythromycin to medium for clarithromycin, roxithromycin and ketolides, to very long for dirithromycin and azithromycin. All of these agents display large volumes of distribution with excellent uptake into respiratory tissues and fluids relative to serum. The majority of the agents are hepatically metabolised and excretion in the urine is limited, with the exception of clarithromycin. Clinical trials involving the macrolides are available for various respiratory infections. In general, macrolides are the preferred treatment for community-acquired pneumonia and alternative treatment for other respiratory infections. These agents are frequently used in patients with penicillin allergies. The macrolides are well-tolerated agents. Macrolides are divided into 3 groups for likely occurrence of drug-drug interactions: group 1 (e.g. erythromycin) are frequently involved, group 2 (e.g. clarithromycin, roxithromycin) are less commonly involved, whereas drug interactions have not been described for group 3 (e.g. azithromycin, dirithromycin). Few pharmacoeconomic studies involving macrolides are presently available. The ketolides are being developed in an attempt to address the increasingly prevalent problems of macrolide-resistant and multiresistant organisms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11327196
Intestinal phase I metabolism and active extrusion of absorbed drug have recently been recognised as major determinants of oral bioavailability. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A, the major phase I drug metabolising enzyme in humans, and the multidrug efflux pump, P-glycoprotein, are present at high levels in the villus tip of enterocytes in the gastrointestinal tract, the primary site of absorption for orally administered drugs. The importance of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein in limiting oral drug delivery is suggested to us by their joint presence in small intestinal enterocytes, by the significant overlap in their substrate specificities, and by the poor oral bioavailability of joint substrates for these 2 proteins. These proteins are induced or inhibited by many of the same compounds. A growing number of preclinical and clinical studies have demonstrated that the oral bioavailability of many CYP3A and/or P-glycoprotein substrate drugs can be increased by concomitant administration of CYP3A inhibitors and/or P-glycoprotein inhibitors. We believe that further understanding the physiology and biochemistry of the interactive nature of intestinal CYP3A and P-glycoprotein will be important in defining, controlling, and improving oral bioavailability of CYP3A/P-glycoprotein substrates.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11329860
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11336101
Fluvastatin sodium (Lescol, Novartis Pharmaceutical Corp., East Hanover, NJ, U.S.A.), a potent 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG Co-A) reductase inhibitor that limits cholesterol biosynthesis, is available as a 40-mg immediate-release formulation capsule. An extended-release formulation for once-daily administration has been developed for patients with primary hypercholesterolemia who may benefit from doses higher than 40 mg/day. This phase I study evaluated the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of a new fluvastatin extended-release formulation at doses ranging from 80-640 mg/day in 40 hypercholesterolemic patients. After a 2-week dietary stabilization phase, patients (Fredrickson type IIa/IIb), 18-55 years of age, were randomly assigned to four groups to receive oral fluvastatin extended-release (80, 160, 320, or 640 mg) or matching placebo once daily for 13 days. Fluvastatin extended-release was generally safe and well tolerated at doses of 80-320 mg/day. Within this dose range, linear pharmacokinetics was observed after single and multiple dosing. At 640 mg, fluvastatin extended-release was not well tolerated. Six of the seven actively treated patients at this dose experienced adverse events, including diarrhea, headache, and clinically relevant elevations in serum transaminase concentrations. In addition, nonlinear pharmacokinetics, possibly due to saturation of first-pass metabolism, was observed at this dose, causing higher than expected serum drug concentrations. Once-daily administration of fluvastatin extended-release at doses of 80-320 mg/day was generally safe and well tolerated in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia over a 13-day dosing period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11336576
Simvastatin (Zocortrade mark, Merck) is a safe and effective 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor. Simvastatin potently lowers total and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Simvastatin was the first cholesterol-lowering agent that reduced total mortality in a randomised clinical trial. Simvastatin is effective at reducing total mortality, myocardial infarction, coronary mortality and the incidence of stroke or transient ischemic attack in patients with coronary heart disease and hypercholesterolemia. Simvastatin, like other statins, also has non-lipid mechanisms of action. These include anti-inflammatory effects, antiproliferative effects on smooth muscle cells and an upregulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Overall, simvastatin has an excellent safety profile. Simvastatin, along with other statins, has made a significant impact on the morbidity and mortality from coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11336596
Hypercholesterolaemia is a major risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis which, in turn, underlies most ischaemic heart disease (IHD). This review deals briefly with the pathophysiology of lipids in humans and follows with a discussion of current lipid-lowering therapies. In those patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI) or unstable angina, appropriate lipid-lowering therapy has been convincingly shown to reduce not only cardiac events but also overall mortality. The advent of the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors in the late 1980s has had a revolutionary impact in the clinical management of hypercholesterolaemia, not only because of their efficacy but especially because they are well-tolerated. The use of other treatments such as the fibrates and bile acid resins are also discussed. Given the successful use of the statins, it is felt that an emergence of a different class of LDL-cholesterol lowering compound is unlikely in the near future and rather that compounds which can increase HDL-cholesterol while lowering LDL will be of greater impact. There may also be a shifting trend towards such naturally occurring compounds as plant stanols and phytoestrogens.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11336617
This article reviews the pharmacological and clinical aspects of glimepiride, the latest second-generation sulfonylurea for treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). Glimepiride therapy ameliorates the relative insulin secretory deficit found in most patients with Type 2 DM. It is a direct insulin secretagogue; indirectly, it also increases insulin secretion in response to fuels such as glucose. Its action to augment insulin secretion requires binding to a high affinity sulfonylurea receptor, which results in closure of ATP-sensitive potassium channels in the beta-cells of the pancreas. The question has been raised whether insulin secretagogues by acting on vascular or myocardial potassium channels may prevent ischaemic preconditioning, a physiological adaptation that could affect the outcome of coronary heart disease, but there is evidence against this concern being applicable to glimepiride. Glimepiride's antihyperglycaemic efficacy is equal to other secretagogues. It has pharmacokinetic properties that make it less prone to cause hypoglycaemia in renal dysfunction than some other insulin secretagogues, particularly glyburide (also known as glibenclamide in Europe). Its convenient once daily dosing may enhance compliance for diabetic patients who often also require medications for other co-morbid conditions, such as hypertension, hyperlipidaemia and cardiac disease. Glimepiride is approved for monotherapy, for combination with metformin and with insulin. Clinically, its reduced risk of hypoglycaemia makes it preferable to some other insulin secretagogues when attempting to achieve recommended glycaemic control (haemoglobin A(1c) (HgbA(1c)) 7%). Using suppertime neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) and regular insulin with morning glimepiride in overweight diabetic patients achieves glycaemic goals more quickly than insulin alone and with lower insulin doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11336625
Atorvastatin (Lipitor, Pfizer) is a safe and effective 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (statin). It is the most potent currently available statin in terms of lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and total cholesterol levels. It was the first statin shown to lower triglycerides in patients with isolated hypertriglyceridaemia. It has a good safety profile. In common with other statins, it has non-lipid-lowering effects including improving endothelial function, antiproliferative actions on smooth muscle and reducing platelet aggregation. It also has anti-inflammatory effects and may reduce plasma glucose levels. Clinical trial evidence with this statin is currently limited. It did slightly reduce events in the AVERT trial comparing patients receiving coronary angioplasty with those receiving high-dose atorvastatin therapy and in the MIRACL study reduced ischemia in patients with acute coronary syndromes. Other end point trials are in progress.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11336628
Stable angina pectoris, a symptom of coronary heart disease (CHD), manifests as stress-induced ischaemic episodes resulting in severe chest pain. Therapeutic aims are to improve quality of life by decreasing anginal attacks and to prevent myocardial infarction (MI) and death. Current anginal medications include beta-blockers and calcium antagonists, which decrease ischaemic severity by reducing cardiac workload, and nitrates, which increase coronary blood flow. A new therapeutic approach is the use of metabolic agents, such as trimetazidine, which are cytoprotective during ischaemia. Results of several clinical trials demonstrated that trimetazidine, at the standard dose of 20 mg t.i.d., increased exercise capacity, decreased anginal incidence and decreased left-ventricular (LV) dysfunction compared to placebo. Trimetazidine was also as effective as propranolol (120 - 160 mg/day) and nifedipine (40 mg/day) in decreasing anginal episodes and improving exercise parameters. Trimetazidine improved anginal frequency and symptoms in patients in which treatment with diltiazem, nifedipine, propranolol, pindolol, oxprenolol or long-acting nitrates had failed. Trimetazidine was also more effective than isosorbide dinitrate (30 mg/day) as an adjunct to propranolol. Despite efficacy being equivalent to that of beta-blockers and calcium antagonists, trimetazidine does not depress cardiac function and, correspondingly, is not contraindicated in any condition. Adverse effects of trimetazidine are mild and infrequent. In summary, clinical data indicate that trimetazidine is a safe, effective treatment for the symptoms of stable angina pectoris when used either as a monotherapy or an adjunctive therapy. Longer-term trials are necessary to determine whether trimetazidine will be effective in reducing rates of mortality and MI.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11342472
The mechanism of the antithrombotic action of statins is unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of simvastatin on the coagulation process at sites of microvascular injury.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11342801
In the past year, evidence from epidemiological studies in patients with renal disease has confirmed associations between both elevated plasma total homocysteine concentrations and the inflammatory marker C-reactive protein with an increased risk of arteriosclerotic vascular disease. However, it remains to be determined whether lowering total homocysteine or reducing inflammation will prevent 'hard' clinical outcome events such as stroke, myocardial infarction, and vascular death. Randomized trials of homocysteine lowering are currently ongoing and should further clarify the nature of the observed association between elevated total homocysteine and cardiovascular risk in patients with or without renal disease, and whether it is causal and modifiable. There are currently no known therapeutic interventions that specifically lower C-reactive protein levels in individuals or the prevalence of elevated C-reactive protein in the population but randomized trials of anti-inflammatory therapy (e.g. using selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors) aimed at preventing cardiovascular disease are currently being planned.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11343673
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11344588
Registration files of 13 cardiovascular drugs were analysed with respect to the number of double-blind phase-III clinical trials, the use of placebo and active comparator drugs and their dosing schemes. Half of the 146 double-blind trials used active comparator drugs. The majority of files included first-choice reference drugs, but we also found trials in three files with lower dosing schemes of comparator drugs and four files which included only placebo or active controlled double-blind trials. To allow a better interpretation of the information provided in European Public Assessment Reports, which are published for every product approved for marketing in the European Union, uniform reporting is recommended on basic details of trial design, such as comparator drugs used and dosing schemes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11348605
This study presents the long-term safety data from AFCAPS/TexCAPS, the first primary prevention trial to demonstrate that men and women with average levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and below average levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) can significantly benefit from long-term treatment to lower LDL-C; lovastatin 20 to 40 mg/day reduced the risk of a first acute major coronary event (fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, unstable angina, or sudden death) by 37% (p = 0.00008). This double-blind randomized, placebo-controlled trial, in 6,605 generally healthy middle-aged and older men and women, had prespecified end point and cancer analyses. All analyses were intention-to-treat. Safety monitoring included history, physical examination, and laboratory studies (including hepatic transaminases and creatine phosphokinase [CPK]). All participants, even those who discontinued treatment, were contacted annually for vital status, cardiovascular events, and cancer history. After an average of 5.2 years of follow-up, there were 157 deaths (80 receiving lovastatin and 77 receiving placebo; relative risk [RR] 1.04; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.76 to 1.42; p = 0.82); of which 115 were noncardiovascular (RR 1.21; CI 0.84 to 1.74; p = 0.31), and of these, 82 were due to cancer (RR 1.41; CI 0.91 to 2.19; p = 0.13). There were no significant differences between treatment groups in overall cancer rates, discontinuations for noncardiovascular adverse experiences, or clinically important elevations of hepatic transaminases or CPK. Among those who used cytochrome P450 isoform (CYP3A4) inhibitors, there were no treatment group differences in the frequency of clinically important muscle-related adverse events. Treatment with lovastatin 20 to 40 mg daily for primary prevention of coronary heart disease was well tolerated and reduced the risk of first acute coronary events without increasing the risk of either noncardiovascular mortality or cancer.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11349008
Identification of mutations in the ATP binding cassette transporter (ABCA1) gene in patients with Tangier disease, who exhibit reduced HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) and apolipoprotein A1 (apoA1) levels and premature coronary atherosclerosis, has led to the hypothesis that common polymorphisms in the ABCA1 gene could determine HDL-C and apoA1 levels and the risk of coronary atherosclerosis in the general population. We sequenced a 660-bp 5' fragment of the ABCA1 gene in 24 subjects and identified 3 novel polymorphisms: -477C/T, -419A/C, and -320G/C. We developed assays, genotyped 372 participants in the prospective Lipoprotein Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS), and determined the association of the variants with fasting plasma lipids and indices of quantitative coronary angiograms obtained at baseline and 2.5 years after randomization to fluvastatin or placebo. Distribution of -477C/T and -320G/C genotypes were 127 CC, 171 CT, and 74 TT and 130 GG, 168 GC, and 75 CC, respectively, and were in complete linkage disequilibrium (P<0.0001). Data for -477C/T are presented. The -419A/C variant was uncommon (present in 1 of 63 subjects). Heterozygous subjects had a modest reduction in HDL-C (P=0.09) and apoA1 (P=0.05) levels and a lesser response of apoA1 to treatment with fluvastatin (P=0.04). The mean number of coronary lesions causing 30% to 75% diameter stenosis was greater in subjects with the TT genotype (3.1+/-2.1) or CT genotype (2.9+/-1.9) than in subjects with the CC genotype (2.2+/-1.8) (P=0.002). Similarly, compared with subjects with the CC genotype, greater numbers of subjects with the TT or CT genotype had >/=1 coronary lesion (P=0.001). No association between the genotypes and progression of coronary atherosclerosis or clinical events was detected. We conclude that ABCA1 genotypes are potential risk factors for coronary atherosclerosis in the general population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11349614
Despite the use of intracoronary stents, approximately 15-20% of patients who undergo percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) experience symptomatic restenosis. Known mechanisms of restenotic lesion formation are smooth muscle cell proliferation, extracellular matrix production, remodeling and decreased programmed cell death (apoptosis).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11350107
Treatment guidelines have been developed for both "primary" and "secondary" prevention of coronary heart disease. These should consider both the efficacy as well as the costs of such treatment, particularly the costs of treatment with HMG co-enzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins). In the context of guideline development in The Netherlands, the cost effectiveness of treatment with statins was analysed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11352694
The effect of cholesterol-lowering therapy on death from coronary heart disease in older patients with previous coronary heart disease and average cholesterol levels is uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11356390
Increased vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF) may be important in cardiovascular pathophysiology (perhaps relating to angiogenesis and collateral vessel development) and binds target endothelium via receptors such as Flt-1. We hypothesized that there would be increased levels of plasma VEGF and Flt-1 in patients with atherosclerosis and others with hyperlipidemia compared with controls, and a reduction in these factors with 3 months of lipid-lowering therapy. Twenty patients with uncomplicated hyperlipidemia but no atherosclerosis, 20 patients with hyperlipidemia plus clear atherosclerosis, and 40 matched controls were studied. Plasma VEGF was higher in patient groups than in healthy controls (p <0.01), but Flt-1 was not significantly altered. After lipid-lowering therapy, patients with uncomplicated hyperlipidemia had significantly reduced total cholesterol and VEGF (all p <0.05) but no significant change in Flt-1. Lack of a significant correlation between the von Willebrand factor and VEGF suggests the latter is unrelated to endothelial damage. Plasma VEGF that increases in patients with uncomplicated hyperlipidemia free of major underlying atherosclerosis and in patients with hyperlipidemia plus established atherosclerosis is reduced by successful lipid-lowering treatment. These findings may have implications for the pathophysiology and treatment of hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis, and suggest an alternative mechanism (i.e., modulation of angiogenesis) by which lipid-lowering therapy may reduce cardiovascular events beyond lipid reduction alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11356393
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11356400
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11356401
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11357922
LIPI-GOAL is a multicentre, open-label, non-comparative treat-to-target study, conducted from March 1998 to May 1999, that assessed the percentage of patients reaching 1992 European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS) low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) targets with atorvastatin 10-80 mg/day in subjects with hypercholesterolaemia, defined as LDL-C > 160 mg/dl after a 12-week step I diet.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11358645
Estrogen replacement therapy has favorable effects on serum lipoprotein levels in postmenopausal women with hypercholesterolemia. However, there are some patients who fail to respond to hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to lower the serum cholesterol level. In these cases, a conventional lipid-lowering therapy will be applied in addition to HRT, while the effects of these drugs are not well understood. In this study, we studied the effects of simvastatin and bezafibrate administered in addition to HRT.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11359190
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11361054
Two randomized, two-period crossover studies were conducted to evaluate the effects of repeat oral dosing of troglitazone (Study I) and pioglitazone (Study II) on the pharmacokinetics of plasma HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors following multiple oral doses of simvastatin and of simvastatin on the plasma pharmacokinetics of troglitazone (Study I) in healthy subjects. In both studies, each subject received two treatments. Treatment A consisted of once-daily oral doses of troglitazone 400 mg (Study I) or pioglitazone 45 mg (Study II) for 24 days with coadministration of once-daily doses of simvastatin 40 mg (Study I) or 80 mg (Study II) on Days 15 through 24. Treatment B consisted of once-daily oral doses of simvastatin 40 mg (Study I) or 80 mg (Study II) for 10 days. In Study I, the area under the plasma concentration-time profiles (AUC) and maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in subjects who received both troglitazone and simvastatin were decreased modestly (by approximately 30% for Cmax and approximately 40% for AUC), but time to reach Cmax (tmax) did not change, as compared with those who received simvastatin alone. Simvastatin, administered orally as a 40 mg tablet daily for 10 days, did not affect the AUC or tmax (p > 0.5) but caused a small but clinically insignificant increase (approximately 25%) in Cmax for troglitazone. In Study II, pioglitazone, at the highest approved dose for clinical use, did not significantly alter any of the pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC, Cmax, and tmax) of simvastatin HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity. For all treatment regimens, side effects were mild and transient, suggesting that coadministration of simvastatin with either troglitazone or pioglitazone was well tolerated. The modest effect of troglitazone on simvastatin pharmacokinetics is in agreement with the suggestion that troglitazone is an inducer of CYP3A. The insignificant effect of simvastatin on troglitazone pharmacokinetics is consistent with the conclusion that simvastatin is not a significant inhibitor for drug-metabolizing enzymes. The lack of pharmacokinetic effect of pioglitazone on simvastatin supports the expectation that this combination may be used safely.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11368702
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11368705
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11369681
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11372014
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11374422
Administration of pravastatin soon after transplantation successfully lowers cholesterol levels, whereas a reduced number of acute rejection episodes is accompanied by a decrease in natural killer (NK) cell activity. As a consistent low NK cell activity caused by pravastatin might impair tumor surveillance leading to cancer, we studied the effect of pravastatin on NK cell activity in stable renal transplant patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11375257
Recent studies have reported that hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors have vasculoprotective effects independent of their lipid-lowering properties, including anti-inflammatory actions. We used intravital microscopy of the rat mesenteric microvasculature to examine the effects of rosuvastatin, a new HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, on leukocyte-endothelium interactions induced by thrombin. Intraperitoneal administration of 0.5 and 1.25 mg kg(-1) rosuvastatin 18 h prior to the study, significantly and dose-dependently attenuated leukocyte rolling, adherence, and transmigration in the rat mesenteric microvasculature superfused with 0.5 u ml(-1) thrombin. This protective effect of rosuvastatin was reversed by intraperitoneal injection of 25 mg kg(-1) mevalonic acid 18 h before the study. Immunohistochemical detection of the endothelial cell adhesion molecule P-selectin showed a 70% decrease in endothelial cell surface expression of P-selectin in thrombin-stimulated rats given 1.25 mg kg(-1) rosuvastatin. In addition, rosuvastatin enhanced release of nitric oxide (NO) from the vascular endothelium as measured directly in rat aortic segments. Moreover, rosuvastatin failed to attenuate leukocyte-endothelium interactions in peri-intestinal venules of eNOS(-/-) mice. These data indicate that rosuvastatin exerts important anti-inflammatory effects via inhibition of endothelial cell adhesion molecule expression, and that this protective action of rosuvastatin requires release of nitric oxide by the vascular endothelium. These data also demonstrate that the mechanism of the non-lipid lowering actions of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in vivo may be due to reduced formation or availability of mevalonic acid within endothelial cells.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11376298
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11376301
Randomized, controlled trials demonstrate that HMG CoA reductase inhibition reduces coronary event rates in both primary and secondary prevention. In addition to reducing cholesterol levels, laboratory evidence suggests that statins also have anti-inflammatory activity, a property that may be critical for maintaining plaque stability. Recently, the inflammatory marker high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) has been shown to predict vascular risk in individuals with and without hyperlipidemia. Furthermore, in the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE) trial, the relative efficacy of pravastatin in reducing events was greatest among those with elevated levels of hs-CRP. However, the time course and magnitude of this effect in both primary and secondary prevention is controversial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11376309
Recent studies have demonstrated that women at high risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) benefit from cholesterol lowering to an extent similar to that of men. The ability to achieve established treatment goals for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in women with clearly defined risk factors has not been examined in detail.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11376310
Three landmark trials involving 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) were published between 1994 and 1996 (the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study [4S], the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study, and the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events trial). These trials provided evidence that lipid-lowering therapy decreases cardiovascular events, including mortality. Whether these recent data caused a shift toward statin use has not been evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11376633
Postprandial lipemia is associated with endothelial dysfunction. Remnant-like particles (RLP) have been suggested to contribute to these adverse vascular effects. We investigated the effect of cerivastatin and gemfibrozil upon oral fat load induced changes in endothelial function and postprandial lipid profile in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11377469
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11377639
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11383757
To estimate the cost effectiveness of treatment with n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) for secondary prevention after myocardial infarction (MI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11386264
Although beta-adrenergic-receptor antagonists reduce morbidity and mortality in patients with mild-to-moderate chronic heart failure, their effect on survival in patients with more advanced heart failure is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11386889
Some of the benefit of statins for the prevention of cardiovascular disease may be due to their antithrombotic properties. Little is known about the effect of these drugs on the development of deep vein thrombosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11388317
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11389707
3-Hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors are established anti-lipidemic agents. They also exert immunomodulatory effects. Two recent reports suggest that pravastatin may be useful in decreasing the incidence and severity of acute rejections (ARs) in heart and kidney transplant recipients. We undertook this prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind trial to investigate the effect of lovastatin on acute renal allograft rejection. Sixty-five consecutive, one-haplotype-matched, living related first renal transplant recipients were randomized to receive either lovastatin 20 mg/d or placebo for 3 months, in addition to cyclosporine, azathioprine, and steroids. Lipid levels, AR episodes, and liver and muscle enzymes were followed for 3 months post-transplant. At the end of the study period, lovastatin had successfully controlled lipid levels. However, there was no effect on AR episodes (15.15% in the treatment group vs. 18.75% in the placebo group).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11391028
There is good evidence for the use of antiplatelet, beta-blocker and lipid-lowering drugs in the treatment of ischaemic heart disease, but few data on how these medications are used in treating stable angina pectoris. We examined prescription profiles for a sample of patients aged > or =65 years with stable angina, to compare the profiles to local guidelines and to explore the determinants of these profiles, in a cross-sectional study. We identified 11 141 individuals from the Quebec provincial out-patient pharmaceutical database for the period 1 June 1996 to 31 May 1997, and examined the percentage of these patients with and without associated co-morbidities receiving antiplatelet, beta-blocker and lipid-lowering medications. We used hierarchical modelling to examine the role of patient and physician characteristics in explaining the variation in the use of these medications. Calcium-channel blockers were the class of anti-ischaemic drugs most prescribed (63%). Beta-blockers were prescribed in 52.1% of patients. Antiplatelet and lipid-lowering drugs were prescribed to 56.8% and 32.6%, respectively. Increasing age and female gender made patients less likely to be prescribed these treatments. General practitioners were less likely than cardiologists to prescribe beta-blockers and lipid-lowering drugs (OR 0.79, CI 95% 0.68-0.91 and OR 0.77, CI 95% 0.66-0.91, respectively). There is a general under-use of antiplatelet, beta-blocker and lipid-lowering medications in the treatment of stable angina pectoris patients, possibly leading to adverse patient outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11391041
Since the first human heart transplantation was performed in 1967, the field of heart transplantation has advanced to the point where survival and acceptable quality of life are commonplace. Despite remarkable progress in the clinical management of rejection, rejection continues to limit survival and quality of life in the heart transplant population. This review will discuss the biologic processes involved in hyperacute rejection, acute rejection, and humoral (vascular) rejection. The development of endomyocardial biopsy techniques represented a significant advancement in the diagnosis of cardiac rejection, and endomyocardial biopsy remains the 'gold standard' in the diagnosis of cellular rejection. To date, no noninvasive parameters will diagnose rejection with adequate sensitivity and specificity. Biopsy frequency and immunosuppressive therapies may be tailored to the risk of rejection. Immunosuppression for cardiac transplantation can be divided into three major phases: 1) perioperative immunosuppression; 2) maintenance immunosuppression, and; 3) treatment of rejection. The strategy for treating transplant rejection should be influenced by several variables: 1) Histologic grade of rejection; 2) Evidence of hemodynamic compromise by ejection fraction or right heart catheterization; 3) Severity of previous rejection episodes and types of immunosuppressives used; and 4) Risk factors for rejection, including time after transplantation. Future rejection therapy will involve more sophisticated attempts to alter host responses toward the donor organ in a more specific and selective way. Despite considerable advances in the care of the heart transplant recipient, long-term survival is limited by cardiac allograft vasculopathy. The final section of this chapter will review the pathology, immunopathology, nonimmunologic risk factors, diagnosis, prevention and treatment of allograft vasculopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11393378
Corticosteroids represent the first therapeutic approach for patients with focal and segmantal glomerulosclerosis. What to do in patients who do not respond to corticostetoids is still uncertain. Cytotoxic agents have been tried. The results are usually poor when these drugs are given for short periods but almost half of patients may enter remission ir treatment is prolonged. Some decrease in proteinuria may be obtained with mycophenolav, mofetil but the available reports are still scanty and the follow ups are short. Cyclosporine has been largely used both in controlled and non controlled trials with favorable results. However, being the drug nephrotoxic caution should be recommended with its use. Plasma-exchange and lipopheresis may attempted in resistant cases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11394370
Several studies have demonstrated that any beneficial effects of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins), of which simvastatin (Merck Sharp & Dohme) is an example, on coronary events are linked to their hypocholesterolemic properties. The in vivo effects of simvastatin treatment on lipase (GEH = glycerol ester hydrolase) and cholesterol esterase (CEase) activity in the serum of men with coronary heart disease (CHD) were examined. GEH and CEase activity in the serum of men with CHD, before simvastatin treatment, was lower than in the control subjects. In our study we have provided evidence that simvastatin increases GEH activity in a time-dependent manner, but has no effect on CEase activity. This suggests that simvastatin can directly affect acylglycerol metabolism by an increase in GEH activity and may therefore be suitable for the treatment of combined lipoprotein disorders characterized by elevation of triacylglycerols.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11395029
Plant sterols may be a useful additive therapy in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemic patients. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a fat spread enriched with vegetable oil sterols on plasma lipid, lipoprotein and apolipoprotein concentrations. A randomised double blind placebo-controlled crossover trial with two consecutive periods of 8 weeks was conducted. 30 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia treated concurrently with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) and 32 patients with type IIa primary hypercholesterolaemia with a total cholesterol concentration >6.5 mmol/l not taking lipid-lowering drug therapy were recruited from a hospital lipid clinic. The active treatment was a fortified fat spread (25 g/day) providing 2.5 g of plant sterols. The control spread was indistinguishable in taste and appearance. Comparison at the end of the two 8-week trial periods showed a statistically significant reduction in total and LDL-cholesterol with use of the fortified spread but the results were confounded by a carry-over effect, which was partly explained by changes in the background diet. Because a carry-over effect was present, further analyses were restricted to the parallel arms of the first treatment period and were conducted on an intention to treat basis. After 4 weeks, LDL-cholesterol had decreased by 0.04 mmol/l ([0.8%] 95% confidence interval -0.44-0.37 NS) in the placebo group and decreased by -0.76 mmol/l ([15.0%] 95% CI -1.03--0.48, P<0.0001) in the active treatment group. After 8 weeks, the corresponding results were 0.0 mmol/l ([0.0%] 95% CI -0.26-0.24 NS) and -0.51 mmol/l ([10.0%] 95% CI -0.73--0.29 P<0.0001). There were no significant changes in apolipoprotein AI or B concentrations in the placebo group, but there was a small but statistically significant increase in apolipoprotein AI and a decrease in apolipoprotein B in the active treatment group. HDL cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations were unchanged. There was no difference in response between patients with statin-treated familial hypercholesterolaemia and patients with type IIa hyperlipoproteinaemia. We conclude that a fortified fat spread enriched with vegetable oil sterols reduces LDL-cholesterol by 10-15% with no difference in response between hypercholesterolaemic patients prescribed statins and those not taking lipid-lowering drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11395334
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11397506
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11398906
End-stage renal failure (ESRF) represents a major health problem. Early diagnosis and effective measures to slow or to stop renal damage are essential goals for nephrologists to prevent or delay progression to ESRF. Identifying mechanisms of progressive parenchymal injury is instrumental in developing renoprotective strategies. Protein traffic through the glomerular barrier is an important determinant of progression in chronic nephropathies and proteinuria is the best predictor of renal outcome. At the moment, ACE inhibition is the most effective treatment in patients with chronic nondiabetic proteinuric nephropathies, reducing protein traffic, urinary protein excretion rate and progression to ESRF more effectively than conventional treatment. Low sodium diet and/or diuretic treatment may help to increase the antiproteinuric effect of ACE inhibitors by maximally activating the renin-angiotensin system. Intensified blood pressure control, whatever treatment is employed, also enhances the antiproteinuric response to ACE inhibitors. However, since this is not always sufficient to normalise urinary proteins and fully prevent renal damage, additional treatments may be needed in patients poorly or not responding to ACE inhibitors. These may include angiotensin II receptor antagonists, non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists and perhaps low doses of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Preliminary data on multidrug treatments including these additional antiproteinuric agents are encouraging, but additional studies in larger patient numbers are needed to better define the risk/benefit profile of this innovative approach.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11401927
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11403364
To test the primary hypothesis that a newer antihypertensive treatment regimen (calcium channel blocker +/- an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor) is more effective than an older regimen (beta-blocker +/- a diuretic) in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD). To test a second primary hypothesis that a statin compared with placebo will further protect against CHD endpoints in hypertensive subjects with a total cholesterol < or = 6.5 mmol/l.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11403502
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11403509
Colesevelam hydrochloride is a novel, lipid-lowering agent that binds bile acids with high affinity. A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-design study was conducted to assess the efficacy and tolerability of combination low-dose colesevelam and lovastatin treatment in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11403756
Although the short-term safety and tolerability of statins has been well established, their potential carcinogenicity in the long term is still debated. The goal of this study was to determine whether long-term treatment with statins is associated with an increased risk of fatal and nonfatal cancers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11403761
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11405194
The main therapy needed most in the bone field is an anabolic agent for the treatment of osteoporosis. Current drugs on the market, which included bisphosphonates, calcitonin, estrogen and related compounds, vitamin D analogues trabecular microarchitecture. Therefore, it would be desirable to have a satisfactory and universally and iprifalvone, are essentially bone resorption inhibitors that mainly act to stabilize bone mass. Patients with established osteoporosis have lost more than 50% of their bone mass at critical sites in the skeleton, and more over have marked disruption of acceptable drug that would stimulate new bone formation and correct this disturbance of trabecular microarchitecture characteristic of established osteoporosis. Recently inhibitors of the enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase, which controls the first step in the biosynthesis of cholesterol, have been shown to stimulate bone formation in rodents both in vitro and in vivo. The effect is associated with an increased expression of the bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) gene in bone cells. These statins drugs are widely used agents for lowering cholesterol and reducing heart attacks, however they are also known to elicit numerous pleiotropic effects including inhibition of proliferation and migration of smooth muscle cells, inhibition of tumor growth and anti-inflammatory activity. Some of these effects have been attributed to not only to the reduction of cholesterol synthesis by inhibition of the HMG-CoA reductase enzyme but also by the concurrent reduction in downstream metabolites of the mevalonate pathway such as mevalonate, farnesyl pyrophosphate and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate. The findings that statins are capable of increasing bone formation and bone mass in rodents suggests a potential new action for the statins, which may be beneficial in patients with established osteoporosis where marked bone loss has occurred. Recent clinical data suggests that they may reduce the risk of fracture in patients taking these drugs. However, their precise role can only be determined by appropriate randomized clinical trials, which demonstrate their efficacy in this regard in patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11405397
Occurrence of sustained microvolt-level T wave alternans (TWA) at a specified heart rate has been suggested to predict life-threatening arrhythmic events, but its prognostic value has not been well established in patients who survived an acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The purpose of this prospective study was to assess the predictive significance of various noninvasive risk indicators of mortality, including TWA, in consecutive post-AMI patients with optimized medical therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11405825
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11406909
An economic model was developed to estimate the relative cost-effectiveness of alternative HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins)--atorvastatin, cerivastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin--to achieve target low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in a population of secondary CHD prevention patients. By using a cholesterol target as the endpoint of interest and a dose titration approach, the model assumes that the statins demonstrate a class effect through cholesterol lowering. The model was used to estimate the proportion of patients achieving target LDL-C levels (< 3 mmol/l) under each scenario tested. Total costs and incremental cost-effectiveness relative to no treatment and to the lowest cost option were estimated for each scenario. Total costs were highest for pravastatin and lowest for cerivastatin. Compared with no treatment, the incremental cost per patient treated to target LDL-C varied between 383 Pounds (atorvastatin) and 1213 Pounds (pravastatin). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in comparison with the lowest cost treatment (cerivastatin) were 141 Pounds per additional patient achieving target LDL-C with atorvastatin, and 275 Pounds with simvastatin. Fluvastatin and pravastatin were both less effective and more expensive than the lowest cost therapy. Although cerivastatin was associated with lowest expected costs, therapy with atorvastatin achieved the lowest cost-effectiveness ratios. Hence atorvastatin would allow the largest number of patients to be treated to target LDL-C within a fixed drug budget. Choosing between drug therapies on the basis of price alone may be misleading if the effectiveness of therapies varies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11408299
To examine the relation of midlife raised blood pressure and serum cholesterol concentrations to Alzheimer's disease in later life.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11413075
Therapeutic neovascularization may constitute an important strategy to salvage tissue from critical ischemia. Circulating bone marrow-derived endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) were shown to augment the neovascularization of ischemic tissue. In addition to lipid-lowering activity, hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) reportedly promote the neovascularization of ischemic tissue in normocholesterolemic animals. Methods and Results-Fifteen patients with angiographically documented stable coronary artery disease (CAD) were prospectively treated with 40 mg of atorvastatin per day for 4 weeks. Before and weekly after the initiation of statin therapy, EPCs were isolated from peripheral blood and counted. In addition, the number of hematopoietic precursor cells positive for CD34, CD133, and CD34/kinase insert domain receptor was analyzed. Statin treatment of patients with stable CAD was associated with an approximately 1.5-fold increase in the number of circulating EPCs by 1 week after initiation of treatment; this was followed by sustained increased levels to approximately 3-fold throughout the 4-week study period. Moreover, the number of CD34/kinase insert domain receptor-positive hematopoietic progenitor cells was significantly augmented after 4 weeks of therapy. Atorvastatin treatment increased the further functional activity of EPCs, as assessed by their migratory capacity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11413940
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11417585
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11420583
Phytosterol-enriched margarines are a recent addition to the list of so-called 'functional foods'. The ingestion of phyto-sterols lowers the serum cholesterol by inhibiting intestinal uptake of the sterol. The phytosterols available in consumer products are comprised predominantly of beta-sitosterol and sitostanol. The esterified form of these phytosterols increases their solubility and enhances their residence time in the small intestine. Their ability to displace cholesterol from micelles in the small intestine underlies the mechanism that inhibits cholesterol absorption, leading to a 10% reduction in total serum cholesterol. Numerous well designed studies have documented the beneficial actions of these phytosterols on serum cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11421562
To compare short-term glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)), lipid, weight, tolerability, and hepatic effects after switching patients with type 2 diabetes from troglitazone to either pioglitazone or rosiglitazone treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11423051
The purpose of this single-center study was to evaluate the long-term (> or =8 years) outcome of Palmaz-Schatz intracoronary stenting and to identify independent predictors of outcome. Although short-term results of Palmaz-Schatz intracoronary stenting have been promising, with a reduction in both angiographic restenosis and clinical cardiac events up to 3 years, longer-term follow-up has not been established. We analyzed clinical outcome in 426 consecutive patients at least 8 years after coronary stenting. Demographic, clinical, and procedural predictors of restenosis, survival, and event-free survival, defined as freedom from death, myocardial infarction (MI), and coronary revascularization (target stented site, target vessel, and any revascularization) were analyzed. Before discharge, 28 patients (6.6%) sustained at least 1 major cardiovascular event: 3 deaths (0.7%), 18 MIs (4.2%), and 17 repeat revascularizations. Surviving patients were followed for 8.9 years (interquartile range 8.4 to 9.4). After discharge, 59 patients (13.9%) died, 47 (11.1%) sustained an MI, and 188 (44.4%) underwent coronary revascularization. The 8-year event-free survival (freedom from death, freedom from death/MI/target-stented site revascularization, and freedom from death/MI/any coronary revascularization) was (mean +/- SE) 0.86 +/- 0.01, 0.62 +/- 0.03, and 0.47 +/- 0.02, respectively. Unstable angina, lower left ventricular ejection fraction, and saphenous vein graft stenting were found to be independent predictors of death during follow-up. Hypertension, unstable angina, multivessel disease, and multiple stent implantation were found to be independent predictors of the composite of death/MI/any coronary revascularization during follow-up. This study provided a useful assessment of very long-term outcome in survival, event-free survival, and predictors of major cardiac events 8 to 10 years after Palmaz-Schatz stent implantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11423053
Kaliuretic peptide, a 20-amino acid peptide hormone synthesized in the heart, enhances urine flow twofold, whereas atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) enhances urine flow four- to 11-fold in healthy persons. The present investigation was designed to (1) determine whether kaliuretic peptide may have beneficial diuretic effects in persons with congestive heart failure (CHF), and (2) compare its beneficial effects with ANP in the treatment of CHF. Kaliuretic peptide (100 ng/kg body weight/min) given intravenously for 60 minutes to subjects with New York Heart Association class III CHF increased urine flow fourfold (p <0.001), which was maximal 212 hours after its infusion was stopped. Kaliuretic peptide enhanced sodium excretion threefold in subjects with CHF (p <0.01). Kaliuretic peptide increased the urinary excretion rate of potassium ion and fractional excretion of potassium 3.5- and twofold (p <0.05), respectively. ANP (same concentration) did not significantly enhance urine flow. ANP enhanced sodium excretion two- to sixfold in half of the CHF subjects, whereas it had no effect on sodium excretion in the other half. ANP did not significantly increase fractional excretion of sodium but did increase fractional excretion of potassium (p <0.05) during the first 20 minutes of its infusion. ANP-infused patients with CHF became hypotensive. None became hypotensive secondary to kaliuretic peptide. These data indicate that the diuretic properties of kaliuretic peptide in persons with CHF, as opposed to those of ANP, are not diminished (but rather are increased) compared with their effects in healthy persons. In patients with CHF, kaliuretic peptide causes a natriuresis-a feature not observed in those without sodium retention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11423054
Hemostatic and immunologic factors have been implicated in future cardiac events in patients with coronary artery disease. The role of these factors and their interaction is less established in cardiac transplant recipients. We sought to characterize the role of these factors in these patients. Cardiac transplant patients who presented for surveillance coronary angiography and/or endomyocardial biopsy were eligible for enrollment. Ninety-nine consecutive patients were enrolled. Plasma levels of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, von Willebrand factor, fibrin D-dimer, and anti-t-PA antibody were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Anti-THP-1 cell antibodies directed against a monocytic leukemia cell line were detected by incubating patient plasma with THP-1 cells. Bound antibody was detected using goat peroxidase-labeled immunoglobulin G directed against human immunoglobulins. Lipids were measured by enzymatic methods. Multivariate analysis identified the presence of anti-THP-1 cell antibodies (risk ratio 4.41, p = 0.002), t-PA antigen (risk ratio 1.10, p = 0.033), donor age 20 to 26 years (risk ratio 8.83, p = 0.042), and donor age >36 years (risk ratio 15.53, p = 0.009) as predictors of allograft failure. Altered hemostatic function, as demonstrated by elevated plasma t-PA antigen levels, is predictive of subsequent allograft failure in cardiac transplant recipients. In addition, the presence of anti-THP-1 cell antibodies in these patients is predictive of allograft failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11424897
Statins are widely used lipid-lowering drugs that reduce cholesterol synthesis by inhibiting 3-hydroxy-3-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase activity. They also strongly stimulate bone formation in rodents. If the drugs' potent bone-building activity results directly from inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase, there should be less bone fracturing in humans who have taken statins to lower their serum cholesterol and prevent heart attacks, but the data gleaned from several databases are contradictory. According to some reports the lipid-lowering doses of oral statins increased bone mineral density and more than halved the risk of fracturing various bones, while according to others, including the very large Women's Health Initiative Observational Study (WHI-OS), the drugs did not significantly affect the fracturing risk. Such contradictory data could be due in part to one of the commonly used statins, pravastatin which only targets hepatocytes, or due to bone growth being stimulated by something other than inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase. Therefore, different doses of statins may be needed to build bone or optimally lower serum cholesterol. To be able to answer the question posed by the title of this editorial, it will be necessary to carry out a controlled trial using designer statins that are less liver-oriented and thus better for assessing the optimal doses needed, specifically for osteogenicity rather than for their cholesterol-lowering ability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11425277
In animal or cell culture studies, the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients, food factors, herbal extracts, and well-tolerated, available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer, in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves. However, it is reasonable to expect that mechanistically complementary combinations of these measures could have a worthwhile impact on survival times and, when used as adjuvants, could improve the cure rates achievable with standard therapies. The therapeutic options available in this regard include measures that: down-regulate serum free IGF-I; suppress the synthesis of mevalonic acid and/or certain derivatives thereof; modulate arachidonate metabolism by inhibiting 5-lipoxygenase, 12-lipoxygenase, or COX-2; antagonize the activation of AP-1 transcription factors; promote the activation of PPAR-gamma transcription factors; and that suppress angiogenesis by additional mechanisms. Many of these measures appear suitable for use in cancer prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11428472
Dyslipidemia is an important factor in causation of macrovascular disease in type 2 diabetics. The role of simvastatin in the management of dyslipidemia in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus is not very well elucidated, particularly in the context of the recent American Diabetes Association criteria 2001. The American Diabetes Association suggests that aggressive therapy of diabetic dyslipidemia will reduce the risk of coronary heart disease in diabetics and that optimal levels are serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol <2.60 mmol/L (< 100 mg/dl), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol >1.1 5 mmol/L (>45 mg/dl) and triglycerides <2.30 mmol/L, (<200 mg/dl). This study was planned to compare the effect of simvastatin together with behavioral modification and behavioral modification alone, in age, sex and body mass index matched patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with dyslipidemia, in reaching the target levels of various lipids as suggested by the American Diabetes Association criteria 2001.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11428488
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11428539
Results of clinical trials of statin therapy demonstrate that an improvement in incidence of cardiovascular end points and coronary stenosis can be achieved. The beneficial effects of statins on clinical events may involve nonlipid mechanisms that affect endothelial function, such as inflammatory responses, formation of thrombi, and stabilization of plaque.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11428822
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11428834
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11428852
To analyse (1) the prognostic importance of clinical findings and lipids in patients with a previous myocardial infarction and (2) the relative and absolute benefit of simvastatin in patients at low, medium and high predicted risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11429490
Chemopreventive strategies hold substantial promise for reducing the incidence of colorectal cancer, the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the United States. This review focuses on recent advances in the identification of molecular targets and novel strategies for chemopreventive intervention. Many clinical trials are now in progress to assess the ability of synthetic agents or nutritional supplements to alter either the number of colorectal adenomas or biomarkers associated with colorectal tumorigenesis. Populations under study include genetically defined high-risk people and those with increased risk based on a personal history of colorectal neoplasia. A recent study showing that celecoxib, a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, can alter the natural history of polyp formation in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis has provided a benchmark for the clinical development of other chemopreventive agents and heightened awareness that colorectal cancer is a preventable disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11430324
Elevated levels of C-reactive protein, even in the absence of hyperlipidemia, are associated with an increased risk of coronary events. Statin therapy reduces the level of C-reactive protein independently of its effect on lipid levels. We hypothesized that statins might prevent coronary events in persons with elevated C-reactive protein levels who did not have overt hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11434828
Plasma levels of the inflammatory biomarker C-reactive protein (CRP) predict cardiovascular risk, and retrospective studies suggest that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) may lower CRP in a manner largely independent of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). However, prospective trial data directly evaluating this anti-inflammatory effect of statins are not available.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11434833
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11435339
An elevated plasma concentration of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) is a strong predictor of cardiovascular events. However, there have been no longitudinal studies of the relations between development of atherosclerotic lesions and hs-CRP concentrations. Furthermore, it remains unknown whether increased hs-CRP concentrations result in the development of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11437691
The mortality rates due to cardiovascular disease (CVD) in transplant recipients are greater than in the general population. CVD is a major cause of both graft loss and patient death in renal transplant recipients, and improving cardiovascular health in transplant recipients will presumably help to extend both patient and graft survival. Further studies are needed to better evaluate the effectiveness of risk modification on subsequent CVD morbidity and mortality. There is no reason to consider risk factors for CVD such as hyperlipidaemia, hypertension and diabetes mellitus in transplant recipients differently from in the general population. In addition, there are specific transplantation risk factors such as acute rejection episodes and the use of immunosuppressive drugs. It is obvious that several of the immunosuppressive agents used today have disadvantageous influences on risk factors for CVD such as hyperlipidaemia, hypertension and post-transplantation diabetes mellitus (PTDM), but the relative importance of immunosuppressant-induced increases in these risk factors is basically unknown. This may be a strong argument for the selective use and individual tailoring of immunosuppressive agents based upon the risk factor profile of the patient, without jeopardising the function of the graft. Hyperlipidaemia is common after transplantation, and immunosuppression with corticosteroids, cyclosporin, or sirolimus (rapamycin) causes different types of post-transplantation hyperlipidaemia. However, to date, no studies have demonstrated that lipid lowering strategies significantly reduce CVD morbidity or mortality and improve allograft survival in transplant recipients. Several studies using preventive or interventional approaches are ongoing and will be reported in the near future. Post-transplantation hypertension appears to be a major risk factor determining graft and patient survival, and immunosuppressive agents have different effects on hypertension. Controlled studies support the opinion that post-transplantation hypertension must be treated as strictly as in a population with essential hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or chronic renal failure. As increasing numbers of immunosuppressive agents become available for use, we may be in a better position to tailor immunosuppressive therapy to the individual patient, avoiding the use of diabetogenic drugs, drug combinations, or inappropriate doses in patients susceptible to PTDM. Multiple acute rejection episodes have also been demonstrated to be a risk factor for CVD - a strong argument for the use of immunosuppressive drugs to reduce acute rejection. Until we have a better understanding from ongoing landmark studies on the management of CVD, presently available therapy to reduce risk factors needs to be used together with individual tailoring of immunosuppressive therapy with the aim of reducing CVD in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11438554
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11440285
Simvastatin 40 to 80 mg/d has been found to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels significantly more than atorvastatin at equipotent doses (ie, 20-80 mg/d). Data on the effects of lower doses of the 2 drugs on HDL-C levels are conflicting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11440286
Most published studies on the use of lipid-lowering agents to treat hypercholesterolemia have focused on Western populations, with few data on Asian populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11440296
Noncompliance with cardiovascular therapy and prevention initiatives is well documented.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11440491
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11440749
It is well established that 3-hydroxy-3-methyglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors ("statins") reduce cholesterol levels and prevent coronary heart disease (CHD). Although a causal relation between elevated cholesterol levels and stroke has not been well defined, a number of large secondary prevention studies and meta-analyses have shown that statin therapy reduces stroke in patients with CHD and hypercholesterolemia. In addition to the vascular effects of statins (stabilization of atherosclerotic plaques, decreased carotid intimal-medial thickness), there are increasing data to suggest that these agents have additional properties that are potentially neuroprotective. These include endothelial protection via actions on the nitric oxide synthase system, as well as antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-platelet effects. These actions of statins might have potential uses in other neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and certain types of brain tumors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11444086
Statins decrease the hepatic biosynthesis of cholesterol, and reduce the incidence of myocardial infarction in women who have already experienced a myocardial infarction. Statins also reduce the risk of atherosclerosis in diabetic patients, but it is unknown whether they influence the glucose tolerance. It has further been suggested that they may influence bone metabolism. Vitamin C is an antioxidant and it decreases serum cholesterol moderately. Antioxidants may also have other metabolic effects, but these are insufficiently studied. The aim of the present study was to investigate the metabolic effects of the cholesterol-lowering agent fluvastatin and the antioxidant vitamin C. Sixty-eight elderly, postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and mild hypercholesterolemia were randomly assigned to 12 weeks open treatment with either fluvastatin (40 mg daily) + 500 mg vitamin C (n = 45) or vitamin C only (n = 23). We measured biochemical markers of bone formation (serum osteocalcin and total alkaline phosphatase) and bone resorption (serum and urinary CTX), parameters related to diabetes and serum lipids and lipoproteins. Fluvastatin in combination with vitamin C had no effect on bone formation markers. We found a weak decrease in parameters of bone resorption, which was significant from baseline, but not different between the two groups. There were no significant effects on any of the other markers of either fluvastatin or vitamin C. The lipid-lowering effect of fluvastatin was confirmed with a decrease of 20% and 30% in serum total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol, respectively. We conclude that fluvastatin given in clinically relevant doses has no influence on parameters of bone remodeling. Other statins remain to be investigated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11444576
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) has a pathophysiologic role in many disease states. The purpose of this review is to provide recommendations regarding the safety, efficacy, and dosing of CoQ10 in the management of chronic heart failure (CHF), angina, and hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11448316
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11448418
Pravastatin decreases serum MMP-9 concentration in clinically healthy men. This may reflect reduction of nonsymptomatic chronic arterial inflammation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11448728
Mortality rates in the HIV-infected patient population have decreased with the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for the treatment of AIDS. Due to the chronic nature of HAART, long-term metabolic complications are associated with therapy, such as hyperlipidemia, fat redistribution and diabetes mellitus. Currently, all of these symptoms are classified as the lipodystrophy (LD) syndrome(s). However, hyperlipidemia and fat redistribution occur independently, indicating there may be multiple syndromes associated with HAART. Although fat gain/loss and dyslipidemia occur in protease inhibitor (PI) nave patients treated with nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), combination therapies (PI and NRTI) accelerate the syndrome. Recent clinical trials, cell culture and animal studies indicate that these effects are not drug class specific and select PIs, NRTIs and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) can be associated with metabolic complications. Moreover, the effects can vary between various members of the same class of antiretroviral agents (i.e. not all PIs cause the same adverse reactions) and may be influenced by duration of infection, genetics and environmental factors. Although HAART increases the risk of metabolic complications, this does not outweigh the benefits of survival. In this review, we summarize the latest clinical and scientific information on these metabolic complications, examine current hypotheses explaining the syndromes and comment on the existing methods available to manage these metabolic side effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11448925
The statin family of drugs inhibits 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase, the rate-limiting enzyme of the mevalonate pathway, and is used clinically as a safe and effective approach in the control of hypercholesterolemia. We have shown previously (Dimitroulakos, J., Nohynek, D., Backway, K. L., Hedley, D. W., Yeger, H., Freedman, M. H., Minden, M D., and Penn, L. Z. Increased sensitivity of acute myelogenous leukemias to lovastatin-induced apoptosis: a potential therapeutic approach. Blood, 93: 1308-1318, 1999) that lovastatin, a prototypic member of the statin family, can induce apoptosis of human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells in a sensitive and specific manner. In the present study, we evaluated the relative potency and mechanism of action of the newer synthetic statins, fluvastatin, atorvastatin, and cerivastatin, to trigger tumor-specific apoptosis. Cerivastatin is at least 10 times more potent than the other statins at inducing apoptosis in AML cell lines. Cerivastatin-induced apoptosis is reversible with the addition of the immediate product of the HMG-CoA reductase reaction, mevalonate, or with a distal product of the pathway, geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate. This suggests protein geranylgeranylation is an essential downstream component of the mevalonate pathway for cerivastatin similar to lovastatin-induced apoptosis. The enhanced potency of cerivastatin expands the number of AML patient samples as well as the types of malignancies, which respond to statin-induced apoptosis with acute sensitivity. Cells derived from acute lymphocytic leukemia are only weakly sensitive to lovastatin cytotoxicity but show robust response to cerivastatin. Importantly, cerivastatin is not cytotoxic to nontransformed human bone marrow progenitors. These results strongly support the further testing of cerivastatin as a novel anticancer therapeutic alone and in combination with other agents in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11450211
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11451296
We developed a prognostic strategy for quantifying the long-term risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) events in survivors of acute coronary syndromes (ACS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11452674
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11452676
Therapy with individual 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) has been shown conclusively to diminish coronary event rates and mortality in both primary and secondary prevention. To date, scant attention has been paid to whether initiation of such regimens in the hospital phase of acute coronary syndromes might confer cardioprotective benefits. The purpose of this study was to determine the safety and tolerability of early initiation of statin therapy in patients with acute coronary syndromes. In this randomised, double-blind, three-month, pilot study, 100 patients with acute myocardial infarction or unstable angina and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol > 3.5 mmol/l were randomly assigned to pravastatin 40 mg daily or placebo initiated within 48 hours of hospital admission. Pravastatin proved safe and well tolerated in these patients, who were well matched at baseline. No statistically significant differences in death, MI and drug-related adverse events were observed in the pravastatin group compared with control subjects. This pilot study shows that therapy with pravastatin early after an acute coronary event is safe and well tolerated. Larger, long-term studies are needed to confirm these findings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11452711
Plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1) is an important regulatory component of fibrinolysis and is elevated in the presence of endothelial dysfunction. Endothelial dysfunction and PAI-1 in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) have been demonstrated to improve following simvastatin therapy. The effect of converting from simvastatin to atorvastatin on PAI-1 has not been reported and may be an additional consideration when making a formulary medication switch. Fourteen adult patients with hypercholesterolemia and CAD who were receiving simvastatin for a minimum of 3 months were randomized to continue on simvastatin or be converted to atorvastatin. Doses were adjusted to achieve or sustain a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol of < or = 100 mg/dL. A fasting lipid panel and PAI-1 were obtained at baseline and following 10 weeks of treatment. Mean +/- SD LDL cholesterol at baseline (95.6 +/- 13.8 vs. 87.0 +/- 12.3 dL, p = 0.24) and following 10 weeks of simvastatin or atorvastatin (96.6 +/- 8.9 vs. 87.4 +/- 20.3 mg/dL, p = 0.29) were similar. No differences in PAI-1 were observed at baseline (47.7 +/- 19.3 vs. 64.6 +/- 22.2 ng/mL, p = 0.15) or at 10 weeks (51.1 +/- 32.5 vs. 63.9 +/- 26.9 ng/mL, p = 0.44). These data suggest that the conversion from simvastatin to atorvastatin does not adversely affect PAI-1 plasma concentrations in patients with CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11453971
Studies of the cholesterol lowering effect of statin therapy as a function of low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor mutation type have not produced a clear picture, possibly because they included patients with several different kinds of LDL-receptor mutations. We studied the response to treatment with fluvastatin in 28 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia as a result of a receptor-negative mutation (Trp23-stop) and in 30 patients with a receptor-binding defective mutation (Trp66-Gly) to test the hypothesis that response to treatment depends on the type of mutation. Patients were randomized to 12 weeks of treatment with fluvastatin 40 mg daily and 12 weeks of placebo treatment, preceded by a placebo run-in period of 8 weeks in a double-blind, cross-over design. Untreated plasma concentrations of lipids and lipoproteins were similar in the two groups of patients. Plasma cholesterol and LDL cholesterol response to therapy tended to be less marked in receptor-binding defective patients, but the differences were not statistically significant. A tabulation of the results of the present and earlier studies suggests that differences in treatment response as an apparent function of LDL-receptor gene mutational type occur mainly in populations with recent genetic admixture (<400 years). In such populations, persons with the same mutation in the LDL-receptor gene are more likely to share other but undetermined genetic variations affecting the pharmacology of statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11454008
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11455241
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Most randomized, controlled trials evaluating the effectiveness of pharmaceutical, surgical, and device interventions for the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease have excluded patients over 75 years of age. Consequently, the use of these therapies in the older population is based on extrapolation of safety and effectiveness data obtained from younger patients. However, there are many registries and observational databases that contain large amounts of data on patients 75 years of age and older, as well as on younger patients. Although conclusions from such data are limited, it is possible to define the characteristics of patients who did well and those who did poorly. The goal of this conference was to convene the principal investigators of these databases, and others in the field of geriatric cardiology, to address questions relating to the safety and effectiveness of treatment interventions for several cardiovascular conditions in the elderly. Seven committees discussed the following topics: (I) Risk Factor Modification in the Elderly; (II) Chronic Heart Failure; (III) Chronic Coronary Artery Disease: Role of Revascularization; (IV) Acute Myocardial Infarction; (V) Valve Surgery in the Elderly; (VI) Electrophysiology, Pacemaker, and Automatic Internal Cardioverter Defibrillators Databases; (VII) Carotid Endarterectomy in the Elderly. The chairs of these committees were asked to invite principal investigators of key databases in each of these areas to discuss and prepare a written statement concerning the available safety and efficacy data regarding interventions for these conditions and to identify and prioritize areas for future study. The ultimate goal is to stimulate further collaborative outcomes research in the elderly so as to place the treatment of cardiovascular disease on a more scientific basis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11455843
Dyslipidemia is very common in diabetics and substantially increases the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease. Pharmacological therapy with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors ('statins') is effective for dyslipidemia, but the cost and efficacy of individual therapies vary. Therefore, the interest in cost-effective pharmacologic interventions for the prevention of cardiovascular disease events in diabetics has increased. In this article, the literature pertaining to the epidemiology, cost and efficacy of statins in preventing cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, in both the primary and secondary prevention settings, is reviewed. Cost-effectiveness studies of statins in the diabetic population are detailed, along with recommendations for further research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11457739
This study was designed to investigate the effects of lipid-lowering by simvastatin on human atherosclerotic lesions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11457751
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a genetic disease characterized by cardiac hypertrophy, myocyte disarray, interstitial fibrosis, and left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. We have proposed that hypertrophy and fibrosis, the major determinants of mortality and morbidity, are potentially reversible. We tested this hypothesis in beta-myosin heavy chain-Q(403) transgenic rabbits.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11465962
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11466161
The deposition of beta-amyloid (A beta) in neuronal plaques is believed to be crucial for the initiation and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies in vitro have shown that inhibiting cholesterol metabolism with lovastatin, or its active metabolite lovastatin acid, lowers A beta production. To examine the effects of lovastatin on A beta in vivo, human subjects who had elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were treated during a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study with 10, 20, 40 or 60 mg once-daily doses of a controlled-release formulation of lovastatin, or matching placebo. Serum A beta concentrations were measured before and after up to 3 months of treatment. Mean and median changes from baseline in serum A beta concentrations showed a dose-dependent decrease, and analysis of variance indicated that treatment was statistically significant (p < 0.0348). Differences between the 40- and 60-mg dose groups and placebo were statistically significant (Dunnett's p < or = 0.05).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11467215
There is convincing epidemiological evidence indicating that the serum levels of high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol are inversely related to the risk of vascular events. Similarly, intervention trials, involving healthy populations and patients with coronary heart disease (CHD), have shown that raising the serum levels of HDL is associated with a significant decrease in the risk of vascular events. It follows that serum HDL levels must be considered when assessing risk and setting therapeutic goals. Some of the currently available national treatment guidelines reflect this view. The present review considers the place of serum HDL measurement in the prevention of vascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11467307
The benefits of blood pressure lowering, lipid lowering, and glycemic control on morbidity and mortality have been established in major long-term clinical trials. The most extensive information is available for diuretics or beta-blockers in hypertension, hepatic hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) in dyslipidemia, and insulin or sulfonylureas in diabetes. Other drug classes provide similar improvements in blood pressure, lipid profile, and glycemic control, and thereby might be expected to provide comparable long-term benefits. As a result, national guidelines advocate treating patients aggressively in order to achieve control of blood pressure low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and blood glucose. The risks associated with drug treatment are generally class-specific. Among antidiabetic agents, sulfonylureas and insulin are associated with risk for severe hypoglycemia, metformin with risk for lactic acidosis, and troglitazone with risk for idiosyncratic hepatocellular injury. Similarly, widely used antihypertensive and lipid-lowering agents are associated with risk for serious complications, such as angioedema with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, possible increased risk for myocardial infarction and cancer with calcium antagonists, and myositis and liver dysfunction with statins. Physicians must take an aggressive approach to patient management in order to achieve a level of disease control that optimally reduces risk for morbidity and mortality. Serious adverse events may occur rarely with most drug classes; these events can be minimized by appropriately monitoring or selecting patients for treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11468195
The short-term effects of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) on endothelial function at doses that do not affect plasma lipid levels are not known.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11468198
We studied whether lipid-lowering therapy with atorvastatin (target LDL cholesterol [LDL-C] <100 mg/dL) compared with a moderate treatment regimen that used other lipid-lowering drugs led to a lesser progression of atherosclerosis and to different changes in plaque echogenicity in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11468643
Although acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is the leading cause of mortality in the industrialized world, postmyocardial infarction mortality rates have been declining in recent decades. Two possible contributing factors toward this encouraging trend include changing patient characteristics and improved patient management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11471769
The results of trials that study patients with defined lesions (atrial fibrillation without valvular heart disease, various severities of carotid artery stenosis in the neck, intracranial artery stenosis) are very helpful for clinicians caring for patients with those conditions. On the other hand, trials that group all patients with brain ischemia together are not very helpful. Modern technology now makes it possible to define quickly and safely: (1) the location, nature, and severity of causative cerebrovascular, cardiac, and aortic lesions; (2) blood constituents and coagulability; and, (3) the presence, location, and severity of ischemic brain damage. As in all medicine, treatment should be aimed at the cause of disease, not the time course and severity of present damage. Clearly, more trials are needed in patients who have been studied thoroughly using modern technology. Until then, clinicians must understand the context of the trial data to determine if the results are applicable to Mr. or Ms. Jones, and the patients sitting before them in the office or in the hospital bed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11471927
To determine the effect of atorvastatin on postprandial lipaemia in overweight or obese women with the apoprotein (apo) E3/E3 genotype.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11472705
Apolipoprotein B has been shown to be a better predictor of coronary heart disease than low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and non-high-density lipoprotein (non-HDL) cholesterol may also be a better parameter for coronary heart disease risk assessment and as a target for therapy. Data from the Atorvastatin Comparative Cholesterol Efficacy and Safety Study (ACCESS) were used to assess the correlation between lipid and apolipoprotein B levels before and after lipid-lowering therapy and to examine the effects of 5 hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors on lipids and apolipoprotein B. The 54-week study randomized 3,916 hypercholesterolemic patients to atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, or simvastatin, initiated at recommended starting doses with titrations as needed at weeks 6, 12, and 18 to achieve National Cholesterol Education Program LDL targets. Compared with LDL cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol correlated better with apolipoprotein B levels at baseline (r = 0.914, p <0.0001) and at week 54 (r = 0.938, p <0.0001), and the correlation was strong across all baseline triglyceride strata. At starting doses, atorvastatin (10 mg) lowered non-HDL cholesterol by 33.3% compared with 26.6% with simvastatin (10 mg), 24.1% with lovastatin (20 mg), 17.2% with fluvastatin (20 mg), and 17.0% with pravastatin (10 mg). Atorvastatin also provided greater reductions in non-HDL cholesterol after dose titration, and a greater percentage of patients taking atorvastatin achieved non-HDL cholesterol targets. Baseline triglyceride did not affect non-HDL cholesterol reductions with any of the 5 hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors. Fewer patients achieved non-HDL cholesterol targets than LDL cholesterol targets, particularly among high-risk patients, implying that if non-HDL cholesterol was used as a target for treatment, more patients would need to be treated more aggressively than National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines require.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11472706
This study was conducted to determine the efficacy of atorvastatin and niacin on lipoprotein subfractions in patients with atherogenic dyslipidemia. This was a multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel-design study of patients with total cholesterol >200 mg/dl, triglycerides between 200 and 800 mg/dl, and apolipoprotein B >110 mg/dl. Patients were randomly assigned to atorvastatin 10 mg or immediate release niacin 3,000 mg daily for 12 weeks following a low-fat diet stabilization period. Lipoprotein subclasses were measured by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Atorvastatin and niacin both significantly reduced the concentrations of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) particles (-31% and -29%, respectively) and small low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles (-44% and -35%, respectively). Niacin increased the concentration of large LDL (+75%). Atrovastatin reduced the number of LDL particles more than niacin (31% vs 14%). In patients with atherogenic dyslipidemia, both drugs had important effects on lipoprotein subfractions, which contributed to a reduction in coronary heart disease risk. The drugs equally reduced VLDL subclass levels. Niacin shifted the LDL subclass distribution toward the larger particles, more effectively converted patients from LDL phenotype B to phenotype A, and increased levels of the larger and perhaps more cardioprotective high-density lipoprotein particles. In contrast, atorvastatin preferentially lowered the concentration of small LDL particles without increasing levels of large LDL, and more effectively, reduced LDL particle numbers. Atorvastatin had a preferred LDL effect, whereas niacin had a preferred high-density lipoprotein effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11472710
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11472741
cellular adhesion molecules (CAMs) expressed on the endothelial surface play a key role in the inflammatory process of atherosclerosis, and increased expression of CAMs has been shown in hypercholesterolemic individuals. The expression of CAMs is mediated by several cytokines including tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6). The aim of the present study was to assess the influence of pravastatin 40 mg per day on selected soluble CAMs; intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), vascular cellular adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), E-selectin, P-selectin and some circulating markers of inflammation; C-reactive protein (CRP) and the cytokines TNF alpha and IL-6. 40 non-diabetic men, age below 70 years, with serum total cholesterol 6--10 mmol/l combined with HDL-cholesterol < or =1.2 mmol/l were included. The study was randomized, double blinded, placebo controlled, cross over designed with 8 weeks intervention periods. Fasting blood samples were drawn after 8 and 16 weeks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11472743
Patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hFH) are at very high risk for premature coronary heart disease. In the last decade, treatment with statins has reduced cardiovascular mortality in these patients. The aim of this study was to analyze arterial endothelial function assessed as flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) and soluble E-selectin (sE-selectin) levels in patients with hFH under a long-term lipid-lowering treatment. Twenty-five patients who completed the study received a dose of simvastatin to achieve a treatment goal of at least 30% reduction in serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (LDL-C) for 52 weeks. Functional and biochemical measurements were taken at entry, and at week 12 and 52 of treatment. FMD was measured by vascular ultrasound of the brachial artery. sE-selectin, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 were determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). LDL-C levels were significantly reduced by treatment at week 12 and maintained at week 52 (reduction vs. baseline, 44+/-12 and 43+/-11%, respectively, P<0.0001). A significant improvement in endothelial function, measured as FMD (baseline, 4.7+/-6.2%; 12 weeks, 12.3+/-5.9%; 52 weeks, 9.7+/-4.7%; P<0.005) and a reduction in sE-selectin levels (baseline, 16.2+/-3.4 ng/ml; 12 weeks, 11.0+/-3.2 ng/ml; 52 weeks, 12.3+/-4.2 ng/ml; P<0.01) were observed. Endothelial-independent relaxation induced by nitroglycerin was not modified during the study. Our results indicate that a long-term treatment with simvastatin produced a sustained beneficial effect in endothelial function in hFH patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11473066
In patients with type 2 diabetes, intensive glucose regulation, although effective for microangiopathy, has not been shown to have unambiguous preventive effects on the occurrence of cardiovascular disease. Patients with diabetes show a characteristic dyslipidemia (high triglyceride level, low HDL cholesterol level). Aggressive reduction of triglycerides might be an effective method to reduce the cardiovascular risk in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11473096
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11474227
The most common cause of post-transplant dyslipidemia is the use of corticosteroids and cyclosporin-A (CyA). The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have emerged as the agents of first choice in the treatment of post-transplant hyperlipidemia in combination with low fat diet. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of combined treatment with low-dose pravastatin and fish oil in post-renal transplantation dislipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11475783
Cardiovascular diseases represent the major cause of morbility and mortality in industrialized countries, even if the incidence is quite different between each other. In the last years the knowledge of molecular mechanisms, which are responsible of progression of atherosclerosis vascular disease and of its complications such as coronary heart disease, has been particularly improved. At this regard new pharmacological compounds are introduced in clinical practice improved efficacy and effectiveness and, among these ones, thanks to statins a significative reduction in primary endpoint (i.e. reduction in incidence of stroke, total and cardiovascular mortality) has been already demonstrated. This effectiveness seems to be due by acting directly on the vascular atherosclerotic plaque independently from the reduction of blood cholesterol level which, on the contrary, may be involved in the progression of atherosclerotic vascular process.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11477342
Preliminary results from clinical trials suggest that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl co-enzyme A reductase inhibitors may help prevent acute renal allograft rejection. However, the mechanism for this putative effect of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl co-enzyme A reductase inhibitors, and whether it is independent of lipid-lowering per SE are unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11479456
The A-to-Z Trial is an ongoing international, multicenter, randomized study designed to investigate 2 issues concerning contemporary care of patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). The first issue is whether the use of low-molecular-weight heparin versus unfractionated heparin affects outcomes and safety when used as a therapy adjunctive to baseline treatment with tirofiban and aspirin in patients with non-ST-elevation (nSTE) ACS. The second issue is whether early use of an aggressively dosed statin is superior to a current trial-based "accepted care" regimen of a lower-dose statin started 3 to 6 months after an acute event.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11479458
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11481566
Impaired myocardial flow reserve (MFR) in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) without evidence of ischemia has been reported. However, it has not been clarified whether diminished MFR in such male or female patients with FH can be reversed by simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11483446
Gallstones are common in the US and western countries. This article describes the pathogenesis of gallstone formation and the clinical manifestations and current approaches to diagnosis and treatment of the most common clinical conditions caused by gallstones: biliary colic, acute cholecystitis, choledocholithiasis, and acute gallstone pancreatitis. The role of widely used imaging techniques (transabdominal ultrasound, CT scan, MR imaging, and MRCP) and diagnostic and therapeutic endoscopy (endoscopic ultrasound, ERCP) is emphasized. This article is intended mainly for general practitioners, primary care physicians, and other specialists providing medical care to patients with gallstones and their complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11485143
To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and adverse effects of colesevelam hydrochloride, a bile acid-binding resin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11485144
Precautionary warnings for severe myopathy and rhabdomyolysis from the coadministration of statins and fibrates have been well publicized. However, a recent cerivastatin labeling change made the combined use with fibric acid derivatives a contraindication. Practical recommendations for clinicians who care for patients with refractory mixed hyperlipidemia are needed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11485701
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11487446
Lipid-lowering drugs, in particular statin treatments, have been shown to reduce the incidence of initial and recurrent coronary heart disease (CHD) events within several years of initiating therapy. This effect can be clinically detected within the first 1 to 2 years in randomized trials. Recent observational and clinical trial data suggest that lipid-lowering therapy initiated at the time of an acute coronary event can reduce recurrent events, and possibly all-cause mortality, in a much shorter period of time. The possible mechanisms by which this benefit occurs include the effect of reduced lipoprotein levels, as well as an independent effect of statins on endothelial function. Statins improve endothelial-dependent flow-mediated vasodilation by increasing the bioavailability of nitric oxide. They stabilize the plaque by modulating the inflammatory response within the vessel wall. They also decrease clot formation by decreasing the adherence of platelets to the ruptured plaque and by acting on the extrinsic coagulation cascade pathway. This review examines these effects of statins and lipoproteins on vascular function, as well as the clinical evidence supporting early treatment in acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11488782
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11494031
Simvastatin is one of the competitive inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase. During clinical trials, it has shown the ability to lower serum cholesterol. We investigated the effect of simvastatin on the growth of malignant gliomas in vitro, semi-in vivo, and in vivo. An in-vitro MTT assay revealed that human malignant glioma cell lines: U-251MG, U-373MG, and U-87MG, and rat malignant glioma cell line C6 were well inhibited in growth in a dose-dependent fashion. An anchorage-independent growth assay showed that the number of colonies (more than 100 microM in size) of human (U-373MG) and rat malignant gliomas (C6) was markedly reduced in a dose-dependent fashion. A flow cytometry analysis revealed that simvastatin treatment led U-251MG cells to accumulate in sub G0-G1. Immunostaining by TUNEL method showed that most glioma cells treated by 10 microM simvastatin had nuclear immunostaining, suggesting apoptotic changes of the treated cells. The human umbilical vein endothelial cells and human lung fibroblasts were inhibited in growth by no more than 20% of controls even with a high dose (10 microM) of simvastatin. In the semi-in vivo model, using newborn rat brain slice cultures, the rhodamine-labeled glioma cells were abolished after 7 days of local simvastatin treatment with fibrin glue probably suggesting that simvastatin led the cells to apoptosis. In rat models using subcutaneously inoculated C6, the local application of simvastatin combined with fibrin glue (spray method) was quite effective in inhibiting the growth of the tumor. These data suggest that simvastatin may be a novel anti-glioma drug, and the local application of simvastatin combined with fibrin glue (by spray method) may be a crucial new clinical strategy against glioma growth.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11495047
Hyperlipoproteinemia is frequent following liver transplantation and may lead to atherosclerosis. Lipid-lowering agents may be useful, but could interfere with the function of the transplanted organ and with immunosuppression. We therefore evaluated in a prospective, randomized, open-labeled cross-over trial the effect of two frequently used 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (pravastatin 10 mg d(-1) and cerivastatin 0.1 mg d(-1)) in hyperlipoproteinemic patients after liver transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11497338
The objective of our study was to evaluate in humans the drug-drug interaction occurring during the concomitant administration of cisapride and simvastatin, two well-known substrates of CYP3A4.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11498182
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11500190
The response to therapy with hypolipidemic agents shows considerable individual variation. These differences may be due to the interaction of environmental and genetic factors that affect drug bioavailability, receptor function or ligand structure. Our objective was to assess the effect of apolipoprotein (apo) E genotype and gender on lipid-lowering response to the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, atorvastatin. Genotyping was carried out on DNA from 328 male and female subjects who participated in a multicentric, double-blind clinical trial, and received 10 mg/day of atorvastatin. Our data demonstrate no significant gender differences for LDL cholesterol levels at baseline. Moreover, mean LDL-C lowering was similar in men (-36.2%, range -2.7 to -57.8%) and in women (-38.1%, range -9.5 to -58.5%) as compared to baseline. However, men carrying the epsilon2 allele had a significantly higher mean LDL-C response (-44%) than epsilon3 homozygotes (-37%) and epsilon4 carriers (-34%); P=0.01 for apoE group by treatment interaction. No such gene/treatment interactions were noted in women, with those carrying the epsilon2 allele showing a similar mean response (-34%) as epsilon3 homozygotes (-39%) and epsilon4 carriers (-34%). Mean plasma triglyceride lowering with atorvastatin was 17%. A significant apoE group by treatment interaction (P=0.010) was also observed in men, with epsilon2 carriers being more responsive (-27%) than epsilon3/3 (-13%) and epsilon4 (-22%). This interaction was not observed in women. In summary, atorvastatin treatment had similar effects on plasma lipid levels in both men and women; however, the apoE gene locus was a significant predictor of LDL-C and TG responses to atorvastatin therapy in men, but not in women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11501219
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11501230
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death worldwide, and effective treatment of hyperlipidaemia can prevent development of CHD and significantly reduce the risk for cardiovascular events and mortality in this disease. The advent of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) has revolutionised the treatment of hyperlipidaemia, but many patients receiving these drugs still do not achieve their therapeutic goals. Rosuvastatin (Crestor; formerly ZD4522) is a new, potent and long-lasting inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase that is highly selective for hepatocytes. Its pharmacokinetics permit once-daily dosing, and a lack of oxidative hepatic metabolism results in a reduced potential for drug-drug interactions. Preliminary clinical results indicate that it produces rapid dose-related reductions in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and apolipoprotein B that may exceed those achieved with other currently available statins. Increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol have also been observed. Rosuvastatin is also well tolerated, with no evidence of either hepato- or myotoxicity. It is hoped that new agents such as rosuvastatin may help to reduce the high global morbidity, mortality and associated costs of CHD and related vascular disorders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11502313
A generally held belief is that cholesterol concentrations should be kept low to lessen the risk of cardiovascular disease. However, studies of the relation between serum cholesterol and all-cause mortality in elderly people have shown contrasting results. To investigate these discrepancies, we did a longitudinal assessment of changes in both lipid and serum cholesterol concentrations over 20 years, and compared them with mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11503831
(1) In primary prevention trials, pravastatin and lovastatin prevented myocardial infarction and had a positive risk-benefit ratio in men with LDL-cholesterol values exceeding 4.5 mmol/l (1.7 g/l). Cholestyramine and gemfibrozil also prevented myocardial infarction in men with more severe hypercholesterolaemia; while clofibrate had a negative risk-benefit ratio in patients with moderate hypercholesterolaemia. These treatments have not been assessed for primary prevention in women or in patients aged over 70. (2) In trials involving patients with coronary heart disease, pravastatin and simvastatin both reduced the risk of myocardial infarction and/or mortality in patients of both sexes with LDL-cholesterol values above 3.2 mmol/l (1.2 g/l). Gemfibrozil also reduced the risk of myocardial infarction but not mortality, while clofibrate and bezafibrate had no preventive effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11504577
Cardiovascular disease is the primary cause of death among women in the United States, in part due to a very high prevalence of dyslipidemia. Clinical trials have shown that low-density lipoprotein cholesterol-lowering therapy can decrease angiographic progression of coronary disease and decrease clinical events among women and men. Although hormone replacement therapy has beneficial effects on the lipoprotein profile, its role in cardiovascular disease prevention remains unclear. The recently released Third Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program Expert Panel provides detailed guidelines for the management of dyslipidemia in women, with a focus on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and intensity guided by risk of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11504982
Therapy with a HIV protease inhibitor is associated with elevations in cholesterol and triglycerides. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ('statins') are the established therapy for persons with primary hypercholesterolaemia. Because of drug interactions, pravastatin may represent the preferred choice in those taking HIV protease inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11505177
We conducted a population-based cohort study to estimate the risk of myopathy associated with use of lipid-lowering drugs. Using data from general practices in the United Kingdom in 1991 through 1997, we identified three cohorts of individuals 40 to 74 years of age. One cohort comprised 17,219 persons who had received at least one prescription for lipid-lowering drugs in the period; a second cohort consisted of patients with a hyperlipidemia diagnosis who had not been prescribed lipid-lowering drugs (N = 28,974); and a third cohort comprised 50,000 individuals from the general population with no diagnosis of hyperlipidemia. The incidence rate of myopathy in the cohort of users of lipid-lowering drugs was 2.3 per 10,000 person-years [95% confidence interval (95% CI) = 1.2-4.4], which exceeded the incidence rates observed in the nontreated hyperlipidemia cohort [0 per 10,000 person-years (95% CI = 0.0-0.4)] and the general population [0.2 per 10,000 person-years (95% CI = 0.1-0.4)]. The relative risks of myopathy in current users of fibrates and statins compared with nonusers were 42.4 (95% CI = 11.6-170.5) and 7.6 (95% CI = 1.4-41.3), respectively. Potential risk factors other than drug use could not explain our findings in the nested case-control analysis. We conclude that use of lipid-lowering drugs is associated with a substantially greater risk of myopathy, which is most pronounced for fibrates. The absolute risk of myopathy in users of lipid-lowering drugs is, however, small.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11507323
Treatment with the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenyzme A reductase inhibitors (or statins) reduces the risk for cardiovascular events across a broad spectrum of patient profiles, as evidenced by both primary prevention and secondary prevention trials. Improved survival by way of reduced deaths from coronary heart disease was also reported with these agents, which are primarily indicated for substantial reduction in LDL-cholesterol levels. However, the statins are extremely complex drugs and exhibit a wide variety of vascular effects that may or may not be dependent on their lipid-modifying properties. These so-called pleiotropic effects include alterations of endothelial function, inflammation, coagulation, and plaque stability. The relative contribution of the nonlipid effects of statin therapy to the well-documented clinical benefits is currently under intense investigation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11507334
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11511118
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11514481
To determine the proportion of the population, firstly, with cholesterol >/= 5.0 mmol/l and, secondly, with any cholesterol concentration, who might benefit from statin treatment for the following: secondary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD); primary prevention at CHD risk 30%, 20%, 15%, and 6% over 10 years; and primary prevention at projected CHD risk 20% over 10 years (CHD risk at age 60 years if actual age < 60 years).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11522100
We retrospectively evaluated the response to steroids (S) +/- angioten-sin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) vs. ACEI in nephrotic patients with FSGS seen in our clinic from 1992 - 1999. Of 48 patients with biopsy-proven FSGS, 30 had pre-therapy and follow-up evaluations of proteinuria. Of these, 22 were nephrotic (> or = 3 g protein/24 h). Twelve/22 were treated with S and 10/22 with ACEI +/- HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) alone. 92% of S patients received ACEI during follow-up, 83% concurrently with steroid treatment. The two cohorts (S vs. ACEI) were not different in age (34 +/- 12 vs. 33 +/- 12), sex (75% vs. 78% male), or ethnicity (83% vs. 83% African American). Mean follow-up time was 16 (range 4 - 61 months) vs. 23 months (range 6 - 56 months). Mean S dose was 70 mg qd (range 60 - 100 mg), with mean treatment duration of 4 months. Nephrotic patients were compared with regard to degree of proteinuria at follow-up. There were no complete remissions (proteinuria < or = 200 mg/24 h) in either group. There was no difference in partial remissions (> 200 mg to < 3 g proteinuria/24 h) between the two groups - 5/12 vs. 6/10 (p = 0.434). There was no difference in the proportion of patients progressing to ESRD. Although proteinuria decreased significantly with time in both groups, there was no significant treatment effect. There was no significant time or treatment effect on serum creatinine. Mean arterial pressure and serum cholesterol were not significantly different between the groups. Thus, treatment with S +/- ACEI is no more effective in reducing proteinuria in FSGS than treatment with ACEI alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11523726
Irbesartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of patients with hypertension. Although irbesartan does not require biotransformation for its pharmacological activity, it does undergo metabolism via the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9 isoenzyme and negligible metabolism by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme. The long term treatment of patients with hypertension is generally required for effective management of the disease, and the use of concurrent medications is usually inevitable. This paper reviews the drug and food interaction trials involving irbesartan that have been conducted to date. Based on the available literature, no significant interactions have been identified between irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, nifedipine, simvastatin, tolbutamide, warfarin, magnesium and aluminum hydroxides, digoxin or food. Fluconazole did increase the steady-state peak plasma concentration (by 19%) and area under the concentration-time curve (by 63%) of irbesartan, but these increases are not likely to be clinically significant. In summary, irbesartan has demonstrated minimal potential for drug or food interactions in trials conducted to date.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11524031
An emerging body of evidence indicates that beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, or 'statins', provide neuroprotection in addition to reducing ischaemic stroke. Statins reduce the incidence of ischaemic stroke by stabilising atherosclerotic plaques in the precerebral vasculature and through antithrombotic actions, and the neuroprotective effects of statins may confer significant clinical benefit. Some of these neuroprotective effects are likely to be cholesterol independent and mediated by the interruption of isoprenoid biosynthesis. Therapy with statins may modulate endothelial function and preserve blood flow to regions exposed to an ischaemic insult. In particular, statin-mediated preservation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase activity in cerebral vasculature, especially in the ischaemic penumbra, may limit neurological deficit. Moreover, putative anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties of statins may confer additional neuroprotection. Further large clinical trials are necessary to address the role of statin therapy in the primary prevention of stroke, small vessel cerebrovascular disease and vascular dementia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11524058
Rosuvastatin is a new, synthetic, orally active statin, with marked low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol-lowering activity. We conducted 2 dose-ranging studies. In the first study, after a 6-week dietary run-in, 142 moderately hypercholesterolemic patients were randomized equally to receive double-blind placebo or rosuvastatin 1, 2.5, 5, 10, 20, or 40 mg or open-label atorvastatin 10 or 80 mg once daily for 6 weeks; in the second study, conducted to extend the rosuvastatin dose range, 64 patients were randomized to double-blind, once-daily placebo or rosuvastatin 40 or 80 mg (1:1:2 ratio) for 6 weeks. Data from both studies were combined for analysis of lipid effects. No statistical comparison of atorvastatin arms with placebo or rosuvastatin was performed. Rosuvastatin was associated with highly significant dose-dependent reductions in LDL cholesterol compared with placebo (p <0.001); decreases ranged from 34% (1 mg) to 65% (80 mg). Linear regression analysis indicated an additional 4.5% LDL cholesterol reduction for each doubling of the rosuvastatin dose. Across the dose range, approximately 90% of LDL cholesterol reduction occurred within the first 2 weeks of treatment. Significant, dose-dependent reductions in total cholesterol and apolipoprotein B with rosuvastatin were also observed (p <0.001). High-density lipoprotein cholesterol increases and triglyceride reductions were consistently observed and statistically significant at some dose levels. All lipid ratios were significantly reduced at all rosuvastatin dose levels (p <0.001). Adverse events were similar across placebo and active treatments. No significant increases in alanine aminotransferase or creatine kinase were seen in any patient. Over 6 weeks, rosuvastatin produced large, rapid, dose-dependent LDL cholesterol reductions and was well tolerated in hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11524554
Estrogen used alone (estrogen replacement therapy [ERT]) or with the addition of progesterone (hormone replacement therapy [HRT]) is known to be effective in reducing menopausal symptoms including hot flashes, vaginal dryness and urinary symptoms. It has been traditionally contraindicated, however, in women with a previous diagnosis of breast cancer because of fear that it may increase the risk of recurrence. There are considerable basic scientific data but little methodologically strong observational data and none from randomized studies concerning the use of ERT in women with a prior diagnosis of breast cancer. From our knowledge of the physiology of breast cancer, however, estrogen and/or progestational agents should be used with caution in women with a previous diagnosis of breast cancer. There are currently many alternatives to ERT/HRT in the prevention of menopausal symptoms such as vitamin E, clonidine and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressants such as venlafaxine. There are also a variety of other approaches to the prevention of osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease including bisphosphonates, diet, and exercise; and diet, exercise, and statins, respectively. Other suggested beneficial effects of estrogen such as colon cancer prevention can be approached by the use of aspirin or the non-steroidals. Several trials of ERT/HRT used for 2 years versus no therapy in menopausal women with a previous diagnosis of breast cancer are ongoing in Europe and Britain, and should give us stronger data as to the role of HRT in this setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11526345
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11526915
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11528008
Hypercholesterolaemia is an established major risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) in the general population. In the vast majority of studies that focused on this particular age group and carefully eliminated other confounding factors such as co-morbid conditions, hypercholesterolaemia was a risk factor for CHD in the older population. Because the prevalence of CHD increases with advancing age, studies that consider not only the relative risk attributed to cholesterol but also the absolute numbers of people affected, show hypercholesterolaemia to be an even stronger risk factor in the elderly. Large primary and secondary prevention studies of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) in the elderly have shown a reduction in major coronary events similar to that observed in the younger age group. The role of hypercholesterolaemia as a risk factor for stroke is less clear, and a major limitation is the heterogeneous nature of the disease. Nevertheless, most studies that evaluated non-haemorrhagic strokes separately showed a positive association with cholesterol levels, and statin therapy is effective in preventing stroke. These data provide a rationale for treating older hypercholesterolaemic people with statins, not only to prevent CHD, but also to prevent stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11529594
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11529595
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11530028
Most patients fail to achieve and maintain low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol goals established by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP). The Atorvastatin Comparative Cholesterol Efficacy and Safety Study (ACCESS) was a randomized study comparing the efficacy and safety of five statins and their ability reduce LDL cholesterol to the NCEP target level.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11531002
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11545752
Chromosome 17q21-23 harbors genes for platelet glycoprotein IIIa and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), which are polymorphic for alleles Pl(A2) and ACE "D." These alleles have been independently and often associated with ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD). We sought to determine if the Pl(A2) and ACE D polymorphisms were risk factors for recurrent coronary events. In the Cholesterol And Recurrent Events (CARE) trial, 4,159 men and women with documented myocardial infarction (MI) were randomized to receive either placebo or pravastatin, and were followed prospectively for 5 years. Pl(A) and ACE genotypes were determined in 767 patients: 385 cases who had experienced a recurrent primary event (death due to coronary disease or nonfatal MI), and 382 age- and gender-matched controls. In patients receiving placebo, the Pl(A1,A2) genotype conferred a relative risk (RR) of 1.38 (confidence intervals [CI] 1.04 to 1.83; p = 0.028; adjusted RR = 1.32, CI = 0.99 to 1.76; p = 0.058]) for the primary end point. Compared with the placebo group, pravastatin reduced the excess RR of coronary disease death and recurrent MI in the Pl(A1,A2) patient population by 31% (p = 0.06). The ACE D allele appeared to have modestly additive effects on the Pl(A1,A2) risk. Among the Pl(A1,A2) patients, pravastatin had little effect on the risk of recurrent events with the ACE II genotype, but reduced the adjusted RR from 1.42 (placebo) to 0.58 for ACE ID patients, and from 1.56 (placebo) to 0.83 for ACE DD. The Pl(A1,A2) genotype was associated with an excess of recurrent coronary events in patients after MI who did not receive pravastatin, and the ACE D allele added to this risk. These data suggest that it would be important to perform a larger study to address the potential role of these genotypes in therapeutic decision making.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11545771
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11547217
Coronary artery, cerebrovascular and peripheral vascular disease, are the principal causes of morbidity and mortality in type 2 diabetes mellitus. The accelerated macrovascular disease in type 2 diabetes mellitus is due partly to the increased incidence of cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, obesity and dyslipidemia. Advanced glycation end products, glycoxidised and oxidized low-density lipoproteins and reactive oxygen species linked to hyperglycemia have all been identified in type 2 diabetes mellitus and could accelerate macroangiopathy. Hence, the resistance to insulin is an additional independent risk factor, in association with oxidant stress, dyslipidemias, and prothrombic/hypofibrinolytic states. The endothelium is a major organ involved by cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, inflammation, ageing, postmenopausal status, and smoking. Changes in endothelium function may lead to the coronary artery circulation being unable to cope with the increased metabolism of myocardial muscle independently of a reduced coronary artery diameter. The way endothelial function is altered in diabetic patients is not yet fully understood, but the loss of normal endothelial function could be involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic angiopathy, as endothelial dysfunction is associated with diabetic microangiopathy and macroangiopathy. Finally, recent reports indicate that an improved metabolic control in diabetic patients, whatever the treatment used, is associated with near normalization or restoration of normal endothelial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11549708
Animal studies, experimental models on cell lines, and epidemiological case-control studies have all suggested the possibility that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors have a beneficial effect on bone metabolism. However, all epidemiological studies are not prospective in nature and based on either measurement of bone mineral density or fracture risk. They also differ in recruitment criteria, definition of statin exposure, and outcome assessment. We performed a first prospective study using specific biochemical bone markers on 17 hypercholesterolaemic non-osteoporotic subjects treated with a therapeutic dose of simvastatin 20 mg daily for 4 weeks. Our results show that serum osteocalcin concentration increased significantly (p-value < 0.05) 4 weeks after therapy, whereas other bone markers including serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase activity, urine deoxypyridinoline, and urine cross-linked N-telopeptides of type I collagen did not show any significant changes. Our data support that simvastatin causes a beneficial effect on bone metabolism as reflected by an increase in serum osteocalcin concentration. This added beneficial effect of statins on bone metabolism could potentially allow statins to become the first effective anabolic agent for the treatment of osteoporosis. We urge that priority should be given to a randomised controlled study to re-evaluate this group of drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11550660
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11551003
The study was designed to determine whether a 1-year hospital-based secondary prevention programme would have any long-term effects on serum lipid levels and the use of lipid-lowering drugs in patients with coronary artery disease 4 years after referral to primary care facilities for follow-up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11555537
Dyslipidemia is a major risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). While some uncertainty exists about the clinical significance of improving high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels, large primary- and secondary-prevention studies aimed at lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels with statins have convincingly reduced CHD events and total mortality. Despite the strong clinical evidence and widely publicized treatment guidelines, many hyperlipidemic patients receive inadequate lipid-lowering treatment. This failure to achieve clinical treatment goals may be due to poor physician adherence to treatment guidelines, patient noncompliance, and the presence of concomitant medical conditions that modify typical hyperlipidemia management. This review considers the challenges and available strategies to optimize lipid management in patients at risk for CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11558479
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11558482
High LDL-cholesterol is a risk factor for atherosclerosis. We aimed to determine whether aggressive cholesterol lowering with statins was more effective than conventional statin treatment in this disease. We investigated the effect of high-dose atorvastatin on carotid atherosclerosis progression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11559693
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11560203
To assess the lipid-lowering efficacy, safety, and costs of a large-scale statin formulary conversion program.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11562276
The development of farnesyltransferase inhibitors (FTIs) has been one of the most active areas of anticancer drug development for the past ten years. This review presents a general overview of the developments in this area, along with a critical appraisal of the anticancer activity of FTIs. A historical survey of the protein prenylation field is given, in particular to emphasize the key role played by the Ras oncoprotein in driving the discovery of prenyltransferase enzymes. The different classes of prenylated proteins will be described along with the biochemical characteristics of the key drug target--farnesyltransferase (FTase). Numerous potent farnesyltransferase inhibitors have been developed. The FTIs developed can be separated into three different categories, based on their origin and/or mechanism of action: a) natural products; b) peptidomimetics and other CAAX-competitive inhibitors; c) farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) mimetics or analogs and other FPP-competitive inhibitors. Along with a survey of newer FTIs in each class, the development of several representative, potent compounds will be discussed in depth as we discuss the potential advantages and liabilities of each class. Particular emphasis is given to the discovery of new, more potent FPP-competitive FTIs of several diverse structural classes. Testing of different FTIs for their ability to block the growth of various cancer cell types in animal models will be discussed. There are a number of key differences between these compounds and traditional cytotoxic cancer chemotherapeutic agents, with surprising exceptions to their expected modes of action. As some FTIs have entered human clinical trials, answers may soon become available to key mechanistic questions concerning the extent and nature of their antitumor growth properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11563401
The HMG CoA reductase inhibitors reduce levels of low-density lipoproteins, raise high-density lipoproteins, and lower triglycerides. However, there are other pharmacological effects derived from HMG CoA reductase inhibitor therapy. Certain HMG CoA reductase inhibitors affect atherosclerotic plaque composition, endothelial function, platelet and clotting factors, and immune functioning. The unique extrahepatic pharmacological profile of agents in this class has not been fully characterized. All of the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors studied have improved endothelium-dependent vasodilatation. Vascular smooth muscle proliferation is not significantly affected by pravastatin but is by the other agents. Of all the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, cerivastatin is the most potent inhibitor of vascular smooth muscle proliferation. Pravastatin is the only agent proven to significantly reduce platelet-thrombus formation and fibrinogen levels. Simvastatin has no effect on platelet-thrombus formation or fibrinogen levels, while atorvastatin and lovastatin have been shown to increase fibrinogen in some studies. Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 levels are decreased by pravastatin, are not affected by atorvastatin, and are significantly increased by lovastatin and simvastatin. Pravastatin also has clinical benefits in transplant medicine as a result of inhibiting natural killer cell function, an effect that has not been explored with other HMG CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11564386
This 6-week Prospective, Randomized, Open-label Blinded End point (PROBE) study conducted at 12 sites in the United States compared the efficacy and safety of atorvastatin with cerivastatin. In all, 215 hypercholesterolemic patients (low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol > or = 160 mg/dl [4.14 mmol/L]; triglycerides < or = 400 mg/dl [4.52 mmol/L]) were randomized to receive either atorvastatin 10 mg once daily (n = 108) or cerivastatin 0.3 mg once daily (n = 107). Efficacy was assessed by measuring changes from baseline in LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and triglycerides. Atorvastatin produced significantly greater (p < 0.0001) reductions from baseline to week 6 in LDL cholesterol (37.7% vs 30.2%), total cholesterol (27.5% vs 22.2%), and apolipoprotein B (28.6% vs 21.2%), and a significantly greater (p < 0.05) increase from baseline to week 6 in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (6.8% vs 4.3%) than cerivastatin. Atorvastatin treatment was also associated with a greater percent decrease from baseline to week 6 in triglycerides, with a trend toward statistical significance (p = 0.0982). The percentage of patients that achieved the National Cholesterol Education Program LDL cholesterol goal was greater for those receiving atorvastatin (73%) than for those receiving cerivastatin (66%). The proportion of patients experiencing drug-attributable adverse events, which were mostly mild to moderate and related to the digestive system, was significantly less (p < 0.05) with atorvastatin (5%) than with cerivastatin (14%) treatment. In conclusion, atorvastatin (10 mg/day) is more effective at lowering LDL cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic patients than cerivastatin (0.3 mg/day). Both atorvastatin and cerivastatin are well tolerated, with safety profiles similar to other members of the statin class.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11564402
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11569948
In the past ten years a wealth of fundamental knowledge delineating the molecular mechanism(s) of apoptosis has emerged, and can now be exploited to identify novel apoptotic modulators for the treatment of cancer. Two distinct yet complimentary classes of non-genotoxic agonists that can selectively kill tumor cells are discussed; agents that target 'classical' and 'atypical' apoptotic signaling pathways. The goal of agents targeting classical apoptosis and survival pathways is to directly modulate key apoptotic regulators such as Bcl-2, Akt/PKB, and p53. The aim of agents targeting atypical apoptotic pathways is to target signaling cascades whose inhibition remains non-lethal in normal cells, yet is suicidal in tumor cells. Such compounds presently under development include inhibitors of heat shock protein 90, histone deacetylases and HMG-CoA reductase. Both classes of apoptotic modulators have merit and identification of additional agonists of this nature will provide the many diverse cytotoxic agents that are required to combat the many diseases we call cancer.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11570656
The landmark statin trials showed a significant reduction in morbidity and mortality associated with ischemic heart disease. However, it may not be widely appreciated that smoking had a marked adverse effect on outcome in these trials. In both the primary and secondary prevention setting, the effect of smoking was broadly similar. Smoking markedly increased the risk of events in the placebo and treatment groups. For example, in the primary prevention trials, this risk was 74-86% higher when smokers were compared with nonsmokers in the placebo groups. The corresponding figures for the secondary prevention trials were 23-61%. The risk of events in untreated nonsmokers was of a similar order to that seen in smokers taking statins. Although statin treatment was associated with a significant reduction in events in smokers, the best outcome was observed in nonsmokers treated with statins (primary prevention: lovastatin or pravastatin; secondary prevention: pravastatin or simvastatin). The highest risk of events in any group was in the smokers on placebo. This information may increase clinician and patient awareness as to the marked harmful effect of smoking relative to effective, evidence-based treatment (ie, the use of statins).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11570952
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11571421
While current immunosuppressive drug regimens have significantly increased the rate of successful transplantation outcomes, they convey potentially serious and overlapping adverse effects. Cyclosporine and tacrolimus are the cornerstones of current immunosuppression, achieving excellent one-year renal graft survival rates. Other promising new drugs include sirolimus, which has been demonstrated to reduce efficacy failure rates among renal transplant recipients, and everolimus, which is currently undergoing clinical trials. Agents targeting novel sites in the immune response or disrupting the ischemia-reperfusion cascades are currently under development. Among them, only FTY720 is undergoing large-scale human clinical trials. With its unique mechanism of action and synergistic interactions with cyclosporine and sirolimus, it may provide the foundation for a new era in immunosuppression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11571478
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11571816
The effects of a pravastatin-to-simvastatin conversion program on low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels were studied. Patients receiving pravastatin at a Veterans Affairs medical center were switched to simvastatin beginning in 1997. The dosage of simvastatin was based on the additional percent reduction in LDL cholesterol needed to achieve the goal specified by the National Cholesterol Education Program. The primary endpoint was the change in the percentage of patients meeting their LDL cholesterol goal at baseline and follow-up. Changes in lipid indices, the relative risk (RR) of coronary heart disease (CHD), and program costs were also evaluated. A total of 1032 patients completed the program. The mean +/- S.D. daily doses of pravastatin and simvastatin were 25.2 +/- 11.3 and 22.7 +/- 13.3 mg, respectively. Median baseline and follow-up LDL cholesterol concentrations were 116 and 99 mg/dL, respectively (p < 0.001). Overall, 44% of the patients met their LDL cholesterol goal while taking pravastatin, compared with 69% after conversion to simvastatin (p < 0.001). The predicted mean RR of a future CHD event (based on changes in serum lipids) was 0.87 (95% confidence interval, 0.83-0.91) four years after conversion. The total cost of the program was $40,644 in the first year, and there was a net saving thereafter. Therapeutic interchange between pravastatin and simvastatin increased the number of patients meeting their LDL cholesterol goal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11572739
Small low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle size has been hypothesized to be a risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). Animal models link large LDL to atherosclerosis. However, the strong association between small LDL and other risk factors, particularly triglyceride levels, impedes determining whether LDL size independently predicts CHD in humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11574788
An unresolved issue in preventive cardiology is whether the serum triglyceride level is an independent risk factor for coronary heart disease and, as a direct practical consequence, whether it has value as a diagnostic test. Evidence published in the past year has contributed substantially to clarifying these issues. In this review, we discuss the data that bears upon the importance of triglycerides as a risk factor and the implications of recent clinical trials directed at lipid lowering. We then discuss the alternatives for triglyceride lowering therapy in the light of this new knowledge.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11575709
Clinical trials have demonstrated that inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase (statins) significantly reduce cardiovascular-related morbidity and mortality in patients with and without coronary artery disease. Furthermore, statins are currently the most potent cholesterol-lowering drugs available. Subanalyses of the LIPID study have shown that patients suffering from unstable angina pectoris had at least the same benefit from statin therapy as did patients after myocardial infarction. Studies, recently published (AVERT or MIRACL) provide more information on the topic of therapy with statins in the early phase of acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11575710
Ezetimibe (Sch-58235) is a cholesterol absorption inhibitor being developed by Schering-Plough for the potential treatment of atherosclerosis and hypercholesterolemia. By January 2000, it was in phase III trials in the US [353762], [363364]. Schering-Plough is studying ezetimibe as a monotherapy for lowering lipid levels and, by February 2000, it was also planning combination studies with commonly used statin (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor) therapies. The company believes that ezetimibe will have additive effects with the statins, inhibiting the absorption of cholesterol in the intestine while the statins work by inhibiting the production of cholesterol in the liver [363364]. In May 2000, Merck signed an agreement with Schering-Plough to develop and market in the US a once-daily, fixed-combination tablet with simvastatin (Zocor) [368021]. This combination has been shown to improve LDL reduction to 52% as compared to 35% with Zocor alone [375966].

Abstract for pubmed ID 11575711
S-8921 is a sodium/bile acid transport inhibitor under development by Shionogi for the potential treatment of hyperlipidemia. As of June 2000, phase I trials had commenced in Japan and were planned in Europe [370602]. S-8921 acts by altering sodium-dependent transport mechanisms of the brush-borders in the intestinal mucosa, causing bile acids that re-enter the intestine to be excreted rather than reabsorbed [281476].

Abstract for pubmed ID 11577798
Repaglinide, a carbamoylmethyl benzoic acid derivative, is the first of a new class of oral antidiabetic agents designed to normalise postprandial glucose excursions in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Like the sulphonylureas, repaglinide reduces blood glucose by stimulating insulin release from pancreatic beta-cells, but differs from these and other antidiabetic agents in its structure, binding profile, duration of action and mode of excretion. In clinical trials of up to 1-year's duration, repaglinide maintained or improved glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. In comparative, 1-year, double-blind, randomised trials (n = 256 to 544), patients receiving repaglinide (0.5 to 4mg before 3 daily meals) achieved similar glycaemic control to that in patients receiving glibenclamide (glyburide) < or = 15 mg/day and greater control than patients receiving glipizide < or = 15 mg/day. Changes from baseline in glycosylated haemoglobin and fasting blood glucose levels were similar between patients receiving repaglinide and glibenclamide in all studies; however, repaglinide was slightly better than glibenclamide in reducing postprandial blood glucose in I short term study (n = 192). Patients can vary their meal timetable with repaglinide: the glucose-lowering efficacy of repaglinide was similar for patients consuming 2, 3 or 4 meals a day. Repaglinide showed additive effects when used in combination with other oral antidiabetic agents including metformin, troglitazone, rosiglitazone and pioglitazone, and intermediate-acting insulin (NPH) given at bedtime. In 1-year trials, the most common adverse events reported in repaglinide recipients (n = 1,228) were hypoglycaemia (16%), upper respiratory tract infection (10%), rhinitis (7%), bronchitis (6%) and headache (9%). The overall incidence of hypoglycaemia was similar to that recorded in patients receiving glibenclamide, glipizide or gliclazide (n = 597) [18%]; however, the incidence of serious hypoglycaemia appears to be slightly higher in sulphonylurea recipients. Unlike glibenclamide, the risk of hypoglycaemia in patients receiving repaglinide was not increased when a meal was missed in 1 trial. In conclusion, repaglinide is a useful addition to the other currently available treatments for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Preprandial repaglinide has displayed antihyperglycaemic efficacy at least equal to that of various sulphonylureas and is associated with a reduced risk of serious hypoglycaemia. It is well tolerated in a wide range of patients, including the elderly, even if a meal is missed. Furthermore, glycaemic control is improved when repaglinide is used in combination with metformin. Thus, repaglinide should be considered for use in any patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus whose blood glucose cannot be controlled by diet or exercise alone, or as an adjunct in patients whose glucose levels are inadequately controlled on metformin alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11578152
Animal and observational epidemiologic studies have reported that estrogens may increase the risk for gallstones. No major clinical trials have examined the effect of estrogen plus progestin therapy in postmenopausal women on the risk for biliary tract surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11578706
Increasing evidence supports the involvement of inflammation in acute phase of coronary artery diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11578788
Early detection of asymptomatic subjects who are at risk for future cardiovascular events may allow for earlier medical treatment in order to prevent disease progression and future events. Electron-beam computed tomography accurately identifies people with increased coronary calcification, which is correlated with increased coronary plaque mass, increased likelihood of obstructive coronary disease, and increased likelihood of future cardiovascular events. The St. Francis Heart Study is a single-center combination study of men and women 50-70 years old that includes a natural history study of the relation between calcium scores and cardiovascular events (n = 5582), the association of calcium scores with traditional and nontraditional coronary disease risk factors (n = 1160), and a randomized clinical trial designed to assess the benefit of combination treatment with atorvastatin, vitamin C, and vitamin E, as compared to placebos, in subjects with elevated age- and gender-adjusted coronary calcification (n = 1007). Mean follow-up duration will be 4 years. The study is proceeding on schedule with anticipated completion by August 2002. It should provide important information regarding the benefits of treating asymptomatic men and women who have elevated coronary artery calcium, using cholesterol reduction and antioxidant therapy. The article describes the design of the St. Francis Heart Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11578794
Familial hypercholesterolemia is a hereditary metabolic disorder characterised by high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and an extreme risk of premature cardiovascular disease. In patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia a substantial variation is seen in both the severity of the hypercholesterolemia and onset of atherosclerotic disease symptoms. We discuss the contribution of additional atherogenic risk factors of metabolic, environmental and genetic origin. Subclinical disease measurements, such as the intima media thickness (IMT), assessed by ultrasonography, may contribute to a better risk prediction of future cardiovascular disease in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11582622
The management of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) has improved markedly over the last decade. Large-scale trials have produced a large amount of evidence, and recommendations and guidelines have been established. Whether and to what extent these data have influenced everyday practice on a nationwide scale remains to be ascertained. The present observational prospective, registry was designed to assess current practice in in-hospital management of AMI in Portugal. For a period of 3 months (February to May, 1999), 44 centers, distributed all over the country, Atlantic islands included, enrolled 1372 cases of AMI corresponding to 1366 patients (996 male, mean age 65 +/- 13 years; 370 female, mean age 72 + 11 years; p < 0.0001). Non-ST segment elevation infarcts were present in 26% of cases. In-hospital mortality was 11.2% (154 pts, mean age 74 +/- 10 years).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583063
The objectives of this review are to discuss the role of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isoforms in drug metabolism, to explain differences in metabolism among the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (HMGs, statins), to review drug-drug and drug-food interaction studies dealing with the HMGs, to present case reports dealing with HMG-related myopathy, to discuss major clinical implications of these case reports and to express an opinion of use of HMGs in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583472
Effects of 12 weeks of treatment with pravastatin at a dose of 20 mg/day were compared in subjects with type II hyperlipoproteinemia with apo+(lipoprotein) E phenotype E3/2, E3/3, and E4/3. There were no differences in age, body mass index, smoking status, complications, or plasma levels of lipids and apoproteins, except the higher levels of apo E in E3/2 subjects (n = 11) than in E3/3 subjects (n = 84) and E4/3 subjects (n = 28). Plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) were reduced by 47% +/- 8% (mean +/- SD) in E3/2 subjects, 36% +/- 10% in E3/3 subjects, and 26% +/- 12% in E4/3 subjects after 12 weeks of treatment with pravastatin (all p < 0.0001). Plasma levels of apo B were decreased by 40% +/- 12% in E3/2 subjects, 27% +/- 10% in E3/3 subjects, and 18% +/- 14% in E4/3 subjects after 12 weeks of treatment with pravastatin (all p < 0.0001). The reduction in plasma levels of LDL-C and apo B was most marked in E3/2 subjects, next in E3/3 subjects, and smallest in E4/3 subjects. The authors conclude that treatment with pravastatin at a dose of 20 mg/day in Japanese subjects is equally effective as 40 mg/day in Western subjects, and apo Epolymorphism is a factor to determine the efficacy of pravastatin in Japanese subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583643
Although the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, or statins, share a common lipid-lowering effect, there are differences within this class of drugs. The low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol-lowering efficacy, pharmacokinetic properties, drug-food interactions, and cost can vary widely, thus influencing the selection of a particular statin as a treatment option. The statins that produce the greatest percentage change in LDL cholesterol levels are atorvastatin and simvastatin. Atorvastatin and fluvastatin are least affected by alterations in renal function. Fewer pharmacokinetic drug interactions are likely to occur with pravastatin and fluvastatin, because they are not metabolized through the cytochrome P450 (3A4) system. The most cost-effective statins, based on cost per percentage change in LDL cholesterol levels, are fluvastatin, cerivastatin, and atorvastatin. Awareness of these differences may assist in the selection or substitution of an appropriate statin for a particular patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583720
Colesevelam hydrochloride is a novel, potent, non-absorbed lipid-lowering agent previously shown to reduce low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. To examine the efficacy and safety of coadministration of colesevelam and atorvastatin, administration of these agents alone or in combination was examined in a double-blind study of 94 hypercholesterolemic men and women (baseline LDL cholesterol > or =160 mg/dl). After 4 weeks on the American Heart Association Step I diet, patients were randomized among five groups: placebo; colesevelam 3.8 g/day; atorvastatin 10 mg/day; coadminstered colesevelam 3.8 g/day plus atorvastatin 10 mg/day; or atorvastatin 80 mg/day. Fasting lipids were measured at screening, baseline and 2 and 4 weeks of treatment. LDL cholesterol decreased by 12-53% in all active treatment groups (P<0.01). LDL cholesterol reductions with combination therapy (48%) were statistically superior to colesevelam (12%) or low-dose atorvastatin (38%) alone (P<0.01), but similar to those achieved with atorvastatin 80 mg/day (53%). Total cholesterol decreased 6-39% in all active treatment groups (P<0.05). High density lipoprotein cholesterol increased significantly for all groups including placebo (P<0.05). Triglycerides decreased in patients taking atorvastatin alone (P<0.05), but were unaffected by colesevelam alone or in combination. The frequency of side effects did not differ among groups. At recommended starting doses of each agent, coadministration of colesevelam and atorvastatin was well tolerated, efficacious and produced additive LDL cholesterol reductions comparable to those observed with the maximum atorvastatin dose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583721
Hyperlipidemia is frequently developed following renal transplantation and results in worsening of the patient's prognosis. In study 1, the effects of immunosuppressants, cyclosporine (CsA) and tacrolimus on serum lipids were compared in-patients undergoing renal transplantation. The study included 32 cases of renal transplantation recipients who randomized to the CsA treatment group (15 patients) and the tacrolimus group (17 patients). Before and 1 month after the transplantation, we assessed the serum lipid levels, apolipoprotein levels, the concentrations of cholesterol in the respective lipoprotein fractions and the enzyme activities related to lipid-metabolism. The serum lipid levels in both groups were significantly increased at 1 month after renal transplantation. In the CsA group, there were significant increases in cholesterol contents in very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), LDL2 and HDL2 fractions, whereas, in the tacrolimus group, cholesterol content was increased in VLDL and HDL2 fractions. In study 2, 1 month after renal transplantation, 19 patients with hypercholesterolemia (total cholesterol (TC) >200 mg/dl) and hypertriglyceridemia (triglyceride (TG) >150 mg/dl) were treated with simvastatin 5-10 mg/day for 6 months. Simvastatin treatment significantly decreased serum TC (240+/-29-200+/-22 mg/dl, P<0.001), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C; 114+/-20-99+/-17 mg/dl, P<0.05) and TG levels (217+/-103-130+/-38 mg/dl, P<0.01). In addition, there were significant decreases in very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C; 53+/-20-34+/-15 mg/dl, P<0.001). The Cmax and AUC of simvastatin were increased about eight-fold, when simvastatin was given in combination with CsA. In contrast, no significant changes in simvastatin levels were observed when combination with tacrolimus. Although simvastatin levels were increased with CsA, there were no abnormal changes in renal and liver functions, creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) levels or in incidence of adverse effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583725
Elevated Lipoprotein (a) [Lp (a)] has been reported frequently, but not consistently, to be associated with restenosis following percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). The purpose of this study was to examine the association between Lp (a) and restenosis and clinical events in the context of a multi-centre randomised restenosis [Fluvastatin Angioplasty Restenosis (FLARE)] study of patients undergoing elective PTCA with full angiographic follow up. In the FLARE trial 40 mg fluvastatin twice daily did not influence restenosis, compared with placebo, after successful balloon angioplasty, measured as late loss in 834 patients, but did reduce the risk of death or myocardial infarction. Lp (a) was not effected by fluvastatin. Lp (a) and other biochemical details were established prior to planned PTCA. Among those undergoing successful PTCA, follow up angiography was performed at 26+/-2 weeks. Clinical follow up was complete to week 40. Included in this analysis are the 823 patients who underwent successful angioplasty and had a baseline Lp (a) performed yielding 891 lesions for quantitative coronary angiography (QCA). No association was observed between Lp (a) and either quantitative markers of restenosis or binary restenosis rates. Late loss was 0.27 (SD 0.51) in the lowest quintile (Lp (a) 0-4 g/dl) compared with 0.23 (SD 0.49) (P>0.05). Elevated Lp (a) was not associated with an increased risk of individual or combined major coronary events over 40 weeks. A major adverse cardiac event (MACE) occurred in 41 (24%) of the lowest quintile and 42 (26%) of the highest (P>0.05). In conclusion, elevated Lp (a) was not associated with restenosis or clinical events following elective coronary balloon angioplasty in this randomised clinical trial and should not be considered a risk factor for post angioplasty restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11583742
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11585023
Elevated fasting plasma concentrations of homocysteine have a high prevalence in subjects with cardiovascular disease and have also been associated with an increased risk of atherothrombosis in most, but not all, prospective studies. The most frequent causes of hyperhomocysteinaemia are genetic defects, such as cystathionine-beta-synthase (CBS) deficiency, deficiencies of folic acid and/or vitamin B12, renal failure and interference in homocysteine metabolism by drugs or metabolic alterations. In most cases, no underlying cause can be established. Subjects with CBS deficiency are treated with pyridoxine with additional folic acid and betaine if necessary. Folic acid and vitamin B12 deficiencies should be corrected by supplementation. Increases in folate intake by dietary changes or fortification can also lower plasma homocysteine in vitamin-replete subjects with normal plasma homocysteine levels. In renal failure, folic acid treatment (1-5 mg/day) ameliorates the plasma homocysteine level in most cases but hyperhomocysteinaemia persists in the majority of patients. Primary (fasting) hyperhomocysteinaemia can be treated with folic acid (0.5-5 mg/day). An abnormal methionine-loading test identifies additional patients at risk and postmethionine-loading hyperhomocysteinaemia should be treated with a combination of pyridoxine and folic acid. In the absence of dose-effect studies, a combination of pyridoxine (50 mg) and folic acid (5 mg) is advised. Large clinical trials are currently underway to establish the role of homocysteine-lowering therapy in the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic disease. In view of the effective, cheap and safe character of therapy with folic acid and pyridoxine, a policy can be accepted to screen and treat high-risk patients until these trials have been concluded.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11587400
Azithromycin is an azalide antibiotic with a similar antibacterial spectrum to erythromycin but with greater gram-negative activity. Azithromycin displays a favorable pharmacokinetic profile, with improved absorption and higher sustained tissue concentrations compared with erythromycin. This results in a prolonged elimination half-life, suggesting a potential for treating continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) peritonitis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11588412
Effective control of blood pressure is usually achieved only with the use of two or more antihypertensive medications. The treatment options for hypertension are numerous, and the number of possible combinations large. The selection of a specific combination drug regimen has often been linked to the perceived need for diuretic therapy as first- or second-step therapy; thus, the popularity of such drug combinations as an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor/diuretic, an angiotensin-receptor blocker/diuretic, or a beta blocker/diuretic. Rational alternatives exist, including an ACE inhibitor/calcium channel blocker (CCB) or a dihydropyridine CCB/b blocker combination. Traditionally, recommendations have advised against the use of combination therapy with two drugs from the same therapeutic class. However, because of the different binding and pharmacologic characteristics of CCBs, a rationale exists for combining different agents in this class in the management of hypertension and/or symptomatic coronary artery disease. In the treatment of either hypertension or angina, combination CCB therapy can prove uniquely successful.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11588526
Serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration is an important regulator of vascular reactivity. This double-blinded study examined the effect of lipid-lowering therapy on myocardial vasodilatory function in young hypercholesterolemic but otherwise healthy men. Fifty-one men (age 35 +/- 4 years) with mild hypercholesterolemia (total cholesterol, 5.6 +/- 0.8 mM ) were randomly assigned to receive pravastatin, 40 mg/day, or placebo for 6 months. Myocardial blood flow was measured at rest and during adenosine-induced hyperemia using positron emission tomography and oxygen-15-labeled water at baseline and after treatment. Pravastatin lowered low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol by 33% from 3.77 +/- 0.76 mM (p < 0.001), whereas placebo had no effect. At baseline, resting and adenosine-induced flow values were 0.85 +/- 0.27 and 3.61 +/- 1.00 ml/min per gram in the pravastatin group and 0.83 +/- 0.18 and 3.17 +/- 0.69 ml/min per gram in the placebo group. Despite significant low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol lowering, resting and adenosine-stimulated blood flow values remained similar at follow-up: 0.86 +/- 0.23 and 3.79 +/- 1.31 vs. 0.78 +/- 0.20 and 3.20 +/- 0.86 ml/min per gram, in the pravastatin and placebo groups, respectively. An improvement in adenosine-induced flow after pravastatin, but not after placebo, was seen only in a subgroup of subjects (n = 15) with relatively low adenosine flow (<4.0 ml/min per gram) at baseline. Six months of cholesterol-lowering therapy with statin treatment has no overall significant effect on coronary vasodilator capacity in healthy subjects with mildly elevated cholesterol levels. A controlled study is needed to further test whether improvement in coronary function is obtained in subjects with initially reduced hyperemic flow response.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11591618
[Pro(11)(D)-Ala(12)] angiotensin I is an ACE-resistant substrate specific for chymase. We used this peptide to determine whether a functionally significant non-ACE angiotensin (Ang) II-generating pathway exists in human dorsal hand veins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11594247
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11594253
To assess clinical outcomes and lifestyle modifications in diabetic patients attending a standard cardiac rehabilitation programme following myocardial infarction (MI), a retrospective longitudinal study was undertaken in a district general hospital in the north west of England. A total of 1804 patients attended the cardiac rehabilitation programme over 10 years, of whom 223 (12.4%) had diabetes mellitus. Drugs were underprescribed in all patients, aspirin and beta-blockers especially in diabetics (75.3% vs 90.3%, p < 0.0001; 38.6% vs 60.8%, p < 0.0001). Smoking cessation was poor in diabetics (54.2% vs 69.1%, p < 0.003) and diabetics were less likely to attend at least one session of physiotherapy (26.9% vs 58.6%, p < 0.0001). Diabetics had higher mortality at one year (15.7% vs 5.6%; p < 0.0001), mostly associated with cardiovascular disease (13.4% vs 5.4%, p < 0.0001). Standard cardiac rehabilitation programmes appear to be less effective for patients with diabetes mellitus. We suggest that patients presenting with an existing chronic condition need specialised programmes of rehabilitation to integrate the care of that condition with their recent MI. Aggressive drug therapy following acute MI should also be prescribed in all patients when not contraindicated by other evidence.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11594254
The unique findings from the HOPE (Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation) study strongly support extending the use of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor ramipril as a preventive agent for patients at high risk of cardiovascular events with normal left ventricular function. In addition, ramipril provides significant benefit in diabetic patients. These findings will impact on how ramipril is used in primary care, where ACE inhibitors are currently underprescribed. Patients reflecting the inclusion criteria of the HOPE study should be considered as suitable candidates for long-term ramipril therapy as an addition to their existing drug regimen. Screening should include control of kidney function (by serum creatinine), particularly within the first two weeks of treatment, in addition to regular monitoring of serum potassium. However, the HOPE study shows that ramipril is well tolerated at high doses and over a long treatment period. The effectiveness of therapy should also be regularly reviewed and dose adjustments made where necessary. If concern remains, referral to a specialist--a cardiologist or a diabetologist--may ultimately be necessary.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11599653
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA)-reductase inhibitors (statins) are mainly considered for long-term use and often constitute part of a multiple-drug regime. Besides common adverse drug effects, such as nausea, abdominal discomfort and headaches, all statins harbour the risk of myopathy and fatal rhabdomyolysis. Usually, the frequency of myopathy is low but the incidence increases during concomitant drug therapy. Statins do not differ in their pharmacodynamic property. Therefore, the differences in their pharmacokinetic profiles, i.e. affinity for metabolising enzymes, constitute the rationale for choosing a specific statin especially for combination therapy. In order to point out harmful combinations of therapeutics, this review summarises the pharmacokinetic data of six clinically used statins (atorvastatin, cerivastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin) with special regard to metabolism and drug interactions. In summary, statins that lack a significant hepatic metabolism, i.e. pravastatin, or that are metabolised by more than one cytochrome P450 isoenzyme, i.e. fluvastatin, or whose metabolism is taken over by other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes in case of blockage of the main metabolising enzyme, i.e. cerivastatin, are the least prone to drug interactions. Nevertheless, in case of a specific concomitant drug therapy known to be associated with a higher risk of adverse events, i.e. cyclosporin A and statin, clinical symptoms of myopathy and biochemical data, such as increasing serum creatine phosphokinase, should be monitored carefully.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11600564
The aims of this study were to examine the presence of mutations in the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene among subjects clinically diagnosed with familial hypercholesterolemia and to analyze whether the molecular diagnosis helps to predict the response to simvastatin treatment in our familial hypercholesterolemia population. Fifty-five probands and 128 related subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia were studied. Genetic diagnosis was carried out following a three-step protocol based on Southern blot and PCR-single strand conformational polymorphism analysis. A randomized clinical trial with simvastatin was conducted in 42 genetically diagnosed subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia classified as carriers of null mutations (n = 22) and of defective mutations (n = 20). A mutation-causing familial hypercholesterolemia was identified in 46 probands (84%). In 41 of them (89%), a total of 28 point mutations were detected, 13 of which have not been previously described. The remaining five probands (11%) were carriers of large rearrangements. Familial hypercholesterolemia with null mutations showed a poor response to simvastatin treatment. The mean percentage reduction of plasma total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in these subjects were significantly lower (24.8 +/- 10.3 vs. 34.8 +/- 10.9, P = 0.04 and 30.0 +/- 39.8 vs. 46.1 +/- 18.2, P = 0.02, respectively) than in subjects with defective mutations. Baseline and posttreatment high-density lipoprotein cholesterol plasma values were significantly lower in subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia with null mutations (P < 0.001). In an outbreed Caucasian population, a three-step protocol for genetic screening detected a mutation in the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene in a high percentage (84%) of subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia. Subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia with null mutations (class I) showed lower plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol values and a poor low-density lipoprotein cholesterol response to simvastatin treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11600819
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11601667
The ketolides represent a new subclass of antibiotics among the macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin group. Telithromycin, the first ketolide to be awarded approvable status for clinical use, demonstrates in vitro activity against community-acquired respiratory pathogens including penicillin- and erythromycin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae. An extended half-life permits once-daily oral administration. Telithromycin is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and also inhibits drugs metabolized by CYP3A4. A relatively high frequency of mild-to-moderate gastrointestinal adverse effects has been reported. Similar clinical and microbiologic efficacy has been demonstrated with oral dosing in comparative clinical trials for community-acquired pneumonia, acute sinusitis, acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, and pharyngitis. Although limited data on penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae and erythromycin-resistant Streptococcus pyogenes are available from clinical trials, this drug appears promising for respiratory infections caused by these pathogens.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11602062
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11604563
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP-HUS) is an inclusive term describing diverse syndromes of multiple etiologies with the common features of thrombocytopenia and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia. Other organ involvement, including renal failure, neurologic abnormalities, and gastrointestinal symptoms, is common. Adverse reactions to drugs increasingly are reported as a potential cause of TTP-HUS. More than 50 drugs and other substances have been associated with the development of TTP-HUS, but many case reports are difficult to interpret because there is uncertainty regarding the diagnosis of TTP-HUS and because there is uncertainty regarding the relation of drug exposure to the onset of TTP-HUS. A systematic analysis of reports of drug-associated TTP-HUS will be required to better understand the strength of clinical evidence linking drugs to the etiology of TTP-HUS. In this review, five drugs that have been the subject of the most and the most recent reports of drug-associated TTP-HUS are discussed: mitomycin C, cyclosporine, quinine, ticlopidine, and clopidogrel. The clinical features of TTP-HUS associated with these drugs are different, suggesting two principal mechanisms by which drugs may cause TTP-HUS: dose-related toxicity (mitomycin C, cyclosporine), and immune-mediated reaction (quinine, ticlopidine, clopidogrel). The role of plasma exchange is uncertain, but this treatment is appropriate because of the high mortality and morbidity of drug-associated TTP-HUS. Recognition of a drug-associated etiology in a patient with TTP-HUS is critical to avoid re-exposure and recurrent illness.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11605688
The advent of treatment with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A inhibitors has meant that, with a combination of diet and drug therapy, adequate control of serum cholesterol concentrations can be achieved in most patients with hypercholesterolemia. However, some patients, primarily those with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), may require additional therapy to lower their cholesterol levels. In recent years, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis has emerged as an effective method of treatment in these patients. The criteria for commencement of LDL apheresis are LDL cholesterol levels of 500 mg/dL or higher for homozygous FH patients, 300 mg/dL or higher for heterozygous FH patients in whom medical therapy has failed, and 200 mg/dL or higher for heterozygous FH patients with documented coronary disease and in whom medical therapy has failed. In addition to cholesterol lowering in patients with FH, other indications for LDL apheresis are emerging. These include its use in the treatment of graft vascular disease in patients receiving cardiac transplants as well as in the treatment of certain glomerulonephritides. This review examines the role of LDL apheresis in the management of lipid disorders and the evidence available to support its use in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11605698
To evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of colesevelam hydrochloride, a new nonsystemic lipid-lowering agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11641483
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11668222
Paraoxonase (PON) is an enzyme carried by high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Two gene polymorphisms leading to amino acid substitutions of methionine for leucine at position 55 (M/L55) and arginine for glutamine at position 192 (R/Q192) modulate the activity of the enzyme and possibly also lipid and apolipoprotein concentrations. Our purpose was to examine the effect of the PON genotype on HDL-C and apolipoprotein AI (apo AI) responses to pravastatin treatment. Fifty-one mildly hypercholesterolemic male subjects (mean age 35 +/- 4 years) were enrolled by this prospective, randomized, double-blind study. Lipid concentrations were measured at baseline and after 6 months of pravastatin (n = 25) or placebo (n = 26) therapy. Low active (MM, ML or QQ) and high active (LL or RQ, RR) PON genotype groups were related to lipid and apolipoprotein concentration changes. Pravastatin increased the apo AI concentration 12% (P = 0.017, RANOVA) and tended to increase the HDL-C concentration (P = 0.095, RANOVA) in R allele carriers but not in QQ homozygotes. Significant predictors of the change in apo AI concentration during pravastatin treatment were R/Q192 genotype (P = 0.002), apo AI concentration at baseline (P = 0.002) and M/L55 genotype (P = 0.042). Correspondingly, R/Q192 (P = 0.009) and M/L55 (P = 0.050) genotypes were the statistically significant determinants of HDL-C concentration change. The PON genotype thus modifies the effect of pravastatin on serum HDL-C and apo AI concentrations. This could partly explain the contradictory results obtained from previous studies on the effects of statins on the serum HDL-C concentration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11675082
Today's society places a great emphasis on value for money, so medical interventions must not only be shown to be effective but also be proved to be costeffective. Drug treatment is no exception. In health economics, costeffectiveness is calculated differently depending on the indication and the perspective. For cholesterol-lowering drugs (as an example) there is a difference between primary and secondary intervention. In primary prevention, the cut off value for absolute risk when treatment is costeffective varies with age and sex, but in secondary prevention, although treatment is costeffective for all groups of patients, costeffectiveness varies with age, sex, cholesterol concentration, and other risk factors. There are three complementary approaches to economic assessment of secondary prevention-analysis of the whole population, subgroup analysis, and modelling.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11675517
The presentations at the American Society of Clinical Oncology 2001 meeting reported or updated the results of phase I, II, and III randomized trials and also reported important meta-analyses and retrospective studies impacting on the management of patients with melanoma. In the treatment of early stage melanoma, the prognostic significance of pathologic status of sentinel lymph nodes was affirmed. With respect to regional nodal involvement (American Joint Committee on Cancer [AJCC] stage III), investigators presented the interim results of the United Kingdom randomized low-dose interferon (IFN) trial, and up-to-date meta-analyses of several IFN trials including a pooled analysis of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group trials evaluating interferon in the adjuvant setting. In the advanced disease setting (AJCC stage IV), several studies elucidated the pros and cons of biochemotherapy in patients with metastatic melanoma, with an emphasis on seeking to improve response in the central nervous system and durability of response in general. Thought provoking was new data regarding the potential for lovastatin to act as a chemopreventive agent for melanoma. Translational studies were presented, one supporting the importance of HLA-typing in developing targeted vaccine therapy. Finally, the results of a novel experimental melanoma vaccine were presented using autologous tumor-derived heat-shock protein peptide complex-96 (HSPPC-96).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11675906
To prevent cardiovascular events in hyperlipidaemic patients, plaque stabilization by inhibition of localized inflammatory reactions in the blood vessels is important in addition to cholesterol lowering. Cerivastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin), has more potent enzyme-inhibitory effects than other statins and has also been reported in vitro to inhibit, at low concentrations, various inflammatory reactions due to plaque instability. Cerivastatin was therefore administered over 12 months to five patients with hypercholesterolaemia and atherosclerotic plaque diagnosed by ultrasonography of the carotid artery, and changes in the plaque composition were determined. The mean cholesterol level decreased over the study period, although not significantly. However, the mean percentage of fibrous matrix of the plaque increased significantly from a mean of 11.2 +/- 7.7% at study entry to 18.3 +/- 5.9% at the end of the study. Additionally, the mean maximum plaque height was significantly reduced from 3.7 +/- 0.9 mm to 3.0 +/- 0.7 mm. These results indicate that cerivastatin induces plaque stability independently of cholesterol lowering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11676300
Drug interactions in patients receiving multiple drug regimens are a constant concern for the clinician. With the increased availability of new drugs and their concomitant use with other drugs, there has been a rise in the potential for adverse drug interactions as demonstrated by the recent withdrawals of newly marketed drugs because of unacceptable interaction profiles. Therefore, the interaction potential of a new compound has to be assessed in detail, starting with preclinical in vitro and in vivo studies at candidate selection and continuously followed up through preclinical and clinical development. Since formal in vivo studies of all possible drug interactions are neither practicable nor suggestive, a careful selection of a limited number of drug combinations to be investigated in vivo during the development phase is indicated. Based on knowledge of pharmacokinetic and biopharmaceutical properties, a well balanced link between in vitro investigations and carefully selected in vivo interaction studies allows full assessment of the potential of a new drug to cause clinically relevant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions, prediction of a lack of interactions and derivation of the proper dose recommendations. Clinical pharmacology plays a number of key roles within the process of collecting information on drug interactions during preclinical and clinical development: addressing issues and/or favourable properties to be expected, thus contributing to the scientific assessment of development potential; setting up a rational in vivo drug-drug interaction programme; performing early mechanistic studies to link in vitro with in vivo information (employing 'cocktail' approaches if possible); reviewing co-medication sections for clinical trials; and conducting labelling-oriented interaction studies, after proof of concept. The fact that interactions can occur between various active substances should by itself be a conclusive argument against unnecessary polypharmacy. Prescribing fewer drugs on a rational basis can reduce the risk of adverse effects secondary to drug interactions and may help to improve the quality of drug treatment and to save costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11676303
Cardiovascular disease is now the leading cause of death in transplant recipients. This is due, in part, to the vulnerability of these patients to a complicated set of conditions including hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and post-transplant hyperlipidaemia (PTHL). PTHL is characterised by persistent elevations in total serum cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels. The causes of PTHL are complex and not fully understood, however several classes of immunosuppressants including the corticosteroids, rapamycins and calcineurin inhibitors, appear to play a role. PTHL has been observed in most studies in which patients received calcineurin inhibitor-based regimens, and has been observed with both tacrolimus and cyclosporin. Comparing these calcineurin inhibitors with regard to the relative incidence or severity of PTHL occurring during treatment is difficult because of the use of higher doses of corticosteroids in cyclosporin-based regimens, as compared with tacrolimus-based regimens. However, current expert opinion suggests that the discrepancies in the relative incidence and severity of PTHL are largely accounted for by this difference in corticosteroid dose. At this point in time, evidence for potential differences is scant and inconclusive. Further study is needed, not only to investigate differences in lipid profile, but also of the relative effects of these immunosuppressants on long term graft function as well as on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. PTHL can be successfully managed with a combination of dietary management, reduction and, if appropriate, withdrawal of corticosteroids, and the administration of lipid-lowering drugs. With this combination of therapeutic options, the threats to long term health posed by PTHL may be effectively addressed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11676951
The rapid growth in the understanding of the relation between cholesterol and coronary heart disease has introduced new challenges to the contemporary management of lipid disorders. The publication of the trials of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme-A inhibitors (statins) has invigorated support for the lipid hypothesis, and many advances have been made in understanding the mechanisms underlying atherosclerosis and the potential benefits of the statins. Several international groups have issued guidelines about desirable and undesirable lipid values to help clinical decision making. Despite the availability of such principles, there are many challenges to optimal management of lipid disorders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11676957
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11678788
Increasingly HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) are being used for primary prevention of vascular disease in patients with a raised cholesterol but at low absolute risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). This study uses clinical trial results to explore the limits of absolute safety for statin use in such patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11679405
Inflammatory processes play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and mediate many of the stages of atheroma development from initial leukocyte recruitment to eventual rupture of the unstable atherosclerotic plaque. Elevated plasma levels of several markers of the inflammatory cascade have been shown to predict future risk of plaque rupture. These markers include P-selectin, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1, and C-reactive protein (CRP). Produced in the liver in response to interleukin-6, CRP has emerged as the most powerful inflammatory marker of future cardiovascular risk. Initially considered an innocent bystander in the atherosclerotic process, recent evidence suggests that CRP may have direct proinflammatory effects. Numerous large-scale, prospective studies have found that elevated baseline levels of CRP are a strong independent predictor of future vascular risk. Furthermore, aspirin and statin therapy appear to be particularly effective among individuals with high CRP levels. The addition of CRP screening to traditional lipid testing has the potential to identify individuals at high risk for future cardiovascular events who may benefit from targeted preventive interventions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11683781
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11684077
It has been repeatedly proven that statins improve endothelial function in isolated hypercholesterolaemia but there is far less evidence in the case of combined hyperlipidaemia. Studies assessing the effects of fibrates on endothelium have been neglected. Therefore, we conducted a trial in which the effects of fenofibrate and atorvastatin monotherapy on both endothelium-dependent vascular reactivity and biochemical parameters were compared in patients with combined hyperlipidaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11684078
Although type 2 diabetes is recognized as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular disease is associated with endothelial dysfunction, the influence of type 2 diabetes per se on the endothelial function is controversial. HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitors have been shown to have short-term beneficial effects on endothelial dysfunction among patients with dyslipidemia or cardiovascular disease. The effect of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on the endothelial function in diabetes is largely unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11684632
Recent studies have supported the hypothesis that calcific aortic stenosis is the product of an active inflammatory process, with similarities to atherosclerosis. We sought to determine whether therapy with hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) might slow the progression of aortic stenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11689228
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11693468
Atorvastatin is a synthetic hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor. In dosages of 10 to 80 mg/day, atorvastatin reduces levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol, triglyceride and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)-cholesterol and increases high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol in patients with a wide variety of dyslipidaemias. In large long-term trials in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia. atorvastatin produced greater reductions in total cholesterol. LDL-cholesterol and triglyceride levels than other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. In patients with coronary heart disease (CHD), atorvastatin was more efficacious than lovastatin, pravastatin. fluvastatin and simvastatin in achieving target LDL-cholesterol levels and, in high doses, produced very low LDL-cholesterol levels. Aggressive reduction of serum LDL-cholesterol to 1.9 mmol/L with atorvastatin 80 mg/day for 16 weeks in patients with acute coronary syndromes significantly reduced the incidence of the combined primary end-point events and the secondary end-point of recurrent ischaemic events requiring rehospitalisation in the large. well-designed MIRACL trial. In the AVERT trial, aggressive lipid-lowering therapy with atorvastatin 80 mg/ day for 18 months was at least as effective as coronary angioplasty and usual care in reducing the incidence of ischaemic events in low-risk patients with stable CHD. Long-term studies are currently investigating the effects of atorvastatin on serious cardiac events and mortality in patients with CHD. Pharmacoeconomic studies have shown lipid-lowering with atorvastatin to be cost effective in patients with CHD, men with at least one risk factor for CHD and women with multiple risk factors for CHD. In available studies atorvastatin was more cost effective than most other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in achieving target LDL-cholesterol levels. Atorvastatin is well tolerated and adverse events are usually mild and transient. The tolerability profile of atorvastatin is similar to that of other available HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and to placebo. Elevations of liver transaminases and creatine phosphokinase are infrequent. There have been rare case reports of rhabdomyolysis occurring with concomitant use of atorvastatin and other drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11696467
Angiographic restenosis after percutaneous coronary interventional procedures is more common than recurrent angina. Clinical and angiographic factors associated with asymptomatic versus symptomatic restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention were compared.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11700538
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11703619
Statin therapy has been reported to reduce the acute rejection rate following renal transplantation in a pilot study. The present study is the first randomized, double-blind and adequately powered study to examine the effect of statins on acute rejection of renal allografts.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11703953
Pravastatin has been shown, in an experimental model of ischemia reperfusion, to increase adenosine levels, which exert a potent and protective effect on the heart. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether pravastatin can provide cardioprotection by increased production of adenosine in patients undergoing coronary angioplasty, a clinical model of ischemia reperfusion. Thirty-five hyperlipidemic patients who underwent elective angioplasty for a major epicardial coronary artery were randomly allocated to either 3-month pravastatin or placebo before catheterization. In the placebo group, the mean ST-segment shift during the second balloon inflation was similar that observed during the first inflation, whereas in the preconditioned patients, the shift was significantly less, which is consistent with ischemic preconditioning. In the pravastatin-treated patients, the changes of ST-segment shift were similar between the first and second balloon inflations. In contrast, the patients who received aminophylline developed higher ST-segment shifts during the first and second inflations than those in the pravastatin-treated group alone. Measurements of chest pain score and myocardial lactate extraction ratios during inflation mirrored those of the ST-segment shift. The present study demonstrates that administration of pravastatin results in a significant gain in tolerance to ischemia during angioplasty. The effect of pravastatin was abolished by aminophylline, suggesting that the cardioprotective effect of pravastatin may result from activation of adenosine receptors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11703958
Coronary flow reserve is mainly influenced by the combination of luminal stenosis and vascular dilation capacity. Thus, after statin treatment, the reduction of ischemic threshold in patients submitted to exercise testing could be intensely influenced by angiographic severity. In this study, we verify the effect of statin treatment on exercise-induced myocardial ischemia in hypercholesterolemic patients with a broad range of coronary angiographic severities. Patients with 2 consecutive positive exercise tests, coronary stenosis > or =70%, total cholesterol > or =300 mg/dl, and triglycerides < or =200 mg/dl were randomly assigned to a 16-week treatment period with either diet alone (n = 39) or diet plus statins (simavastatin, n = 31 and pravastatin, n = 10). Statin-treated patients had a significant variation in total cholesterol (-46% vs -2.7%; p <0.01), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-58% vs 0.8%; p <0.01), and high-density cholesterol (+28% vs -6%; p <0.05) in comparison with the diet-only group. After 16 weeks of treatment, 36 patients (92%) in the diet group still had positive exercise tests, whereas only 7 patients (15%) of the statin group had a positive test (p <0.01). The proportion of positive tests was significantly reduced in subgroups of patients with 1-, 2-, or 3-vessel disease. Regarding the severity of coronary stenosis, the proportion of positive tests was significantly reduced in patients with stenosis between 70% and 90% and in patients with stenosis > or =90%. Moreover, the proportion of positive tests tended to decrease to a greater extent in patients with mild coronary disease. In conclusion, cholesterol-lowering treatment with statins reduces exercise-induced myocardial ischemia in hypercholesterolemic patients with mild or severe epicardial coronary stenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11704711
Three-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) reduce coronary events and death in both primary and secondary prevention trials. In these trials benefit did not appear for years after randomization. It is noteworthy that these trials did not include patients with recent myocardial infarctions or unstable angina. It is well known that mortality and recurrent ischemic events rates are the highest in the early period after acute coronary syndromes. Favorable physiologic effects of statins have been described within a few weeks of exposure to the statin in a number of experimental studies. The Myocardial Ischemia Reduction with Aggressive Cholesterol Lowering (MIRACL) study was designed to bridge the gap between primary and secondary prevention trials and specifically included patients with unstable angina or non-ST elevation myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11705478
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11705583
Unstable angina and non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction have in recent years been recognised as frequent and important clinical manifestations of coronary-artery disease. The European (ESC) and American (ACC/AHA) professional societies last year released guidelines on diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment of these disorders. These guidelines summarise similarly the current evidence and translate them to clinical practice. Most important changes relate to the inclusion of troponins into the risk stratification algorithm, the addition of low-molecular-weight heparin and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists to medical treatment, and the role of invasive management for improved long-term outcome. Guidelines are constantly challenged by newly emerging study results. Recently, early invasive management and clopidogrel have been found to exert further benefit to this high-risk group of patients. Accordingly, the societies on both sides of the Atlantic will work together closely to update and implement these guidelines.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11705814
Hypercholesterolemia, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, is associated with inflammation and hypercoagulability. Both can be mediated by the CD40 system. This study investigated whether the CD40 system is upregulated in patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia and whether it is influenced by therapy with a hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11707010
During the last decade, statins have been widely prescribed as lipid-lowering drugs. Their overall safety profile is good. The main musculoskeletal side effects have consisted of muscle pain and weakness, peripheral neuropathy, and a few cases of drug-induced lupus. We report the first four cases of tendinopathy in patients receiving statin therapy. There were three men and one woman. The diagnoses were extensortenosynovitis at the hands (case 1), tenosynovitis of the tibialis anterior tendon (case 2), and Achilles tendinopathy (cases 3 and 4). Two patients were on simvastatin and two on atorvastatin. The tendinopathy developed 1 to 2 months after treatment initiation. The outcome was consistently favorable within 1 to 2 months after discontinuation of the drug. Similar cases have been reported to French pharmacovigilance centers. This report of four cases of tendinopathy draws attention to a possible and heretofore unrecognized side effect of a drug class that is becoming increasingly popular. Statins are effective in lowering high cholesterol levels in patients with type IIa or IIb hypercholesterolemia. They have been widely used for the last decade, particularly in the secondary and primary prevention of major coronary events. Statins act by inhibiting the enzyme hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase. Although most patients tolerate statins extremely well, a few experience side effects requiring treatment discontinuation. Reported musculoskeletal side effects include myalgia and a few cases of rhabdomyolysis and polymyositis. Induced lupus and peripheral neuropathy are exceedingly rare.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11707240
The use of Transmyocardial Laser Revascularization (TMLR) as a strategy to treat unstable angina has been reported in many studies. We analyze its safety and effectiveness in combined procedures (CABG + TMLR).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11709192
With the imminent completion of the Human Genome Project, biomedical research is being revolutionised by the ability to carry out investigations on a genome wide scale. This is particularly important in cancer, a disease that is caused by accumulating abnormalities in the sequence and expression of a number of critical genes. Gene expression microarray technology is gaining increasingly widespread use as a means to determine the expression of potentially all human genes at the level of messenger RNA. In this commentary, we review developments in gene expression microarray technology and illustrate the progress and potential of the methodology in cancer biology, pharmacology, and drug development. Important applications include: (a) development of a more global understanding of the gene expression abnormalities that contribute to malignant progression; (b) discovery of new diagnostic and prognostic indicators and biomarkers of therapeutic response; (c) identification and validation of new molecular targets for drug development; (d) provision of an improved understanding of the molecular mode of action during lead identification and optimisation, including structure-activity relationships for on-target versus off-target effects; (e) prediction of potential side-effects during preclinical development and toxicology studies; (f) confirmation of a molecular mode of action during hypothesis-testing clinical trials; (g) identification of genes involved in conferring drug sensitivity and resistance; and (h) prediction of patients most likely to benefit from the drug and use in general pharmacogenomic studies. As a result of further technological improvements and decreasing costs, the use of microarrays will become an essential and potentially routine tool for cancer and biomedical research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11711002
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11711005
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11712826
To establish which traditional and conditional risk factors were effectively treated, and which remained active, in patients with previous myocardial infarction (PMI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11712864
PPAR-alpha belongs to the family of nuclear receptors. Activated PPAR-alpha stimulates the expression of genes involved in fatty acid and lipoprotein metabolism. PPAR-alpha activators, such as the normolipidaemic fibric acids, decrease triglyceride concentrations by increasing the expression of lipoprotein lipase and decreasing apo C-III concentration. Furthermore, they increase HDL-cholesterol by increasing the expression of apo A-I and apo A-II. PPAR-alpha activation by fibric acids improves insulin sensibility, and decreases thrombosis and vascular inflammation. PPAR-alpha activators (gemfibrozil) decrease the risk of coronary heart disease in patients with normal LDL-cholesterol and low HDL-cholesterol (VA-HIT) and they slow the progression of premature coronary atherosclerosis (BECAIT) (bezafibrate), particularly in patients with type 2 diabetes (DAIS) (fenofibrate).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11714084
Elevated serum triglycerides and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol are part of a metabolic syndrome that is increasingly being recognized as an important risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Several classes of pharmacological agents including fibrates, niacin and statins, can modify the triglyceride-HDL axis. Fibrates in particular have recently been shown in clinical trials not only to increase HDL, but also to reduce cardiovascular mortality in secondary prevention. More research is needed to further define the role of fibrates when used alone and in combination with statins in high-risk individuals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11714208
Lopinavir is a new protease inhibitor that is structurally related to ritonavir. It recently was approved by the Food and Drug Administration as a coformulation with ritonavir under the brand name Kaletra. Ritonavir substantially increases lopinavir drug exposure by inhibiting cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 3A4. Based on limited data, lopinavir-ritonavir demonstrates safety and efficacy in both antiretroviral-naive and protease inhibitor-experienced patients. It has the ability to durably suppress human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) RNA for up to 2 years in antiretroviral-nave patients. Compared with nelfinavir, it had superior virologic control at 48 weeks in antiretroviral-nave patients. Its side effects include diarrhea, abnormal stools, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and asthenia. A number of patients experienced grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities in liver function tests, cholesterol, and triglycerides while receiving this drug combination. The exact resistance patterns of lopinavir-ritonavir are unknown, but the Department of Health and Human Services strongly recommends it for the initial treatment of HIV-infected adults and adolescents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11714215
To evaluate the effectiveness of a posthospital discharge intervention that prompted physicians to increase the use and effectiveness of statins (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors) in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11716156
Diabetes mellitus comprises a heterogeneous group of diseases that have in common the development of macro- and microvascular complications. It is now possible to identify subjects at high risk of Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes, especially in the patient's family members. Preventive interventions are quickly becoming available, and can help delay the onset of the disease and thereby reduce complications in these subjects. Furthermore the correct etiological diagnosis of diabetes is fundamental in providing the best treatment for the patient. Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) syndrome should be suspected in cases of a subtle onset of diabetes and autosomal dominant inheritance. Mitochondrial DNA mutations should be considered when a diabetic patient also suffers from deafness or if there is a family history of this combination in the mother side of the family. Atypical diabetes has to be identified by the physician to avoid mistakes when the patient enters the non-insulin-dependent phase. In the case of Wolfram's syndrome a gene analysis for each family member should be performed to identify heterozygote subjects. Recently, many discoveries in genetics help us better understand the pathogenesis of the diseases and diagnose the monogenic form of diabetes more easily. If all family members are followed in the same center, clues from the family history are readily available for differential diagnosis and preventive interventions can be established more effectively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11716837
(E)-N-ethyl-N-(6,6-dimethyl-2-hepten-4-ynyl)-3-[2-methyl-2-(3-thienylmethoxy)propyloxy]benzylamine hydrochloride (FR194738) inhibited squalene epoxidase activity in HepG2 cell homogenates with an IC50 value of 9.8 nM. In the study using intact HepG2 cells, FR194738 inhibited cholesterol synthesis from [14C]acetate with an IC50 value of 4.9 nM, and induced intracellular [14C]squalene accumulation. On the other hand, the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG)-CoA reductase inhibitor simvastatin reduced both cholesterol and squalene synthesis from [14C]acetate. Incubation with simvastatin for 18 h produced increases in HMG-CoA reductase activity in HepG2 cells, which was related to the degree of reduction in cholesterol synthesis. The HMG-CoA reductase activity increased by 13- and 19-fold at the concentrations of simvastatin that inhibited cholesterol synthesis by 65% and 82%, respectively. In contrast, FR194738 did not increase HMG-CoA reductase activity at the concentrations that inhibited cholesterol synthesis by 24% and 69%, and moderate increase (4.6-fold) was observed at the concentration that inhibited cholesterol synthesis by 90%. These results suggest that non-sterol metabolite(s) derived from mevalonate prior to the squalene epoxidation step in the cholesterol synthetic cascade have a regulatory role in the suppression of HMG-CoA reductase activity. We speculate that FR194738 inhibits cholesterol synthesis with a minimal change of the regulator(s) and would be highly effective in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11717980
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11718459
Evidence has been accumulating for a link between Chlamydia pneumoniae and coronary heart disease (CHD). A spreadsheet model was used to estimate the impact of different strategies for screening and treating C. pneumoniae on the incidence of myocardial infarction and cardiac mortality over a 1-year post-intervention period. It was found that screening would potentially be most cost-effective in men aged over 35 with a history of myocardial infarction (around 2,000 per life-year saved). Cost-effectiveness would be inferior in those with established heart disease but no history of myocardial infarction (MI), and poor for people at elevated risk of CHD. If causality of the association were proven, the cost-effectiveness of treating C. pneumoniae in post-MI patients would compare favourably with, for example, statins for treating hypercholesterolaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11720280
Our understanding of risk factors for atherogenesis has changed significantly over the last decade. In addition to better grasp of the mechanism of action of the "classic" (causal) risk factors, a number of potentially important new factors has emerged. In this review we briefly summarize the evidence of the relation between atherosclerosis and the currently recognized causal risk factors, namely, age, smoking, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, hypertension, and diabetes. More emphasis has been put on description of the emerging entities such as atherogenic profile of plasma lipoproteins with discussion of LDL and HDL subclasses, Lp(a), homocysteine, and, last but not least, on the role of infection and inflammation in atherogenesis. Whenever possible, we tried to summarize the relevant lines of evidence such as epidemiological, pathological, genetic, and clinical trial data linking the specific factor with atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11721672
To validate and implement an audit tool to assess quality and appropriateness of prescribing. To compare inpatient prescribing of secondary prevention in post myocardial infarction patients before and after introduction of a local treatment guideline.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11723009
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11723015
The Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Trial, designed to compare the effects of two lipid-lowering regimens and low-dose anticoagulation versus placebo on progression of atherosclerosis in saphenous vein grafts of patients who had had CABG surgery, demonstrated that aggressive lowering of LDL cholesterol levels to a mean yearly cholesterol level from 93 to 97 mg/dL compared with a moderate reduction to a level of 132 to 136 mg/dL decreased the progression of atherosclerosis in saphenous vein grafts. Low-dose anticoagulation did not affect progression. This secondary analysis tested the hypothesis that a similar decrease in progression of atherosclerosis would also be present in native coronary arteries as measured in the left main coronary artery (LMCA).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11723099
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11724206
We studied the effect of atorvastatin on arterial compliance in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11725812
To examine the impact of 2 cost-containment efforts in prescription benefits in successive years that included changes in copayment and coverage levels, expanded generic coverage, and brand name prescription drug limit-of-coverage in a Medicare health maintenance organization (HMO). The benefit changes included moving to a drug benefit with increased total coverage and higher copayments in the first year (1998) and to one with brand name limit-of-coverage and unlimited generic availability in the second year (1999).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11727350
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11727466
Significant progress has been made in including women in clinical and drug evaluation trials. Nonetheless, for most drugs currently on the market, analysis of benefits by sex is not available. At least some of the adverse effects of newer drugs in women could be due to the lack of inclusion in studies from which therapeutic regimens were derived. The data currently available on potential sex differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics are also limited by having been obtained from healthy subjects receiving only one medication in studies designed only to detect moderate-to-large (> 30-50%) differences between the sexes. The clinical environment is different: patients consume multiple medications, including over-the-counter medications as well as nutraceuticals and dietary supplements; patients are, on average, older than healthy volunteers or even patients enrolled in investigational studies; and patients are more likely to have multiple diseases. In addition, adequate numbers of women still have not been enrolled in clinical trials for the therapy of many common disorders. The prudent clinician will remember that every time a therapy is initiated for an individual patient, especially a female patient, it is a clinical trial and the outcome is uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11728245
Cerivastatin is a synthetic and enantiomerically pure 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor. It has been recognized for its high pharmacologic potency, uncomplicated pharmacokinetic profile, and low drug-interaction potential. The efficacy of cerivastatin has been demonstrated in a number of clinical trials involving patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia. Cerivastatin was found to have dose-dependent reduction in total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. At the 0.4 mg daily dose, cerivastatin was found to lower LDL cholesterol by approximately 35% (mean reductions of 33-39%). The triglyceride-lowering effect of cerivastatin is also dose dependent; however, there is a much stronger association between baseline triglyceride levels and the triglyceride-lowering effect of cerivastatin. A dosage of 0.4 mg daily has been shown to reduce triglycerides by a mean of 28% in patients with baseline triglyceride levels of > 300 mg/dL. At the time of its initial approval by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1997, cerivastatin was available only in 0.2 mg and 0.3 mg strengths. The recent FDA approval of the 0.4-mg strength dose has made cerivastatin a more competitive drug in lipid-lowering efficacy among the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11728357
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11728362
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11728917
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11730394
Although observational studies suggest that estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) reduces cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in postmenopausal women, use of unopposed ERT for prevention of coronary heart disease in healthy postmenopausal women remains untested.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11730833
To determine the effect of atorvastatin on blood rheology in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) on regular LDL apheresis, we prospectively studied the rheological variables fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, red cell aggregation, whole blood viscosity, hematocrit and platelet aggregation in 12 patients (two homozygous, ten heterozygous) before and during treatment with atorvastatin. Baseline values of red cell aggregation and whole blood viscosity were increased in FH patients on regular LDL apheresis compared with healthy controls (P<0.05), whereas fibrinogen, plasma viscosity and hematocrit were similar in the two groups. Treatment with atorvastatin reduced red cell aggregation (P<0.01), whole blood viscosity (P<0.01), plasma viscosity (P<0.01) and platelet aggregation (P<0.05), but caused a slight increase in plasma fibrinogen (by 5%; P<0.01). Our findings suggest that atorvastatin improves blood rheology in patients with FH on regular LDL-apheresis. This improvement in blood flow properties may contribute to the well-known beneficial effects of atorvastatin on cardiovascular risk in patients with severe hyperlipidemia and atherosclerotic vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11731186
The objectives of this study were to assess serum lipid changes in response to an oral estrogen combined with progesterone (Group A) as compared with pravastatin (Group B) and to evaluate the additive effects of the sequential addition of statin to hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) and of HRT to statin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11735317
Educational messages directed at the public to prevent ischemic heart disease (IHD) are generally based on cholesterol-reduction. However, IHD has multiple risk factors, and a study was performed to help determine whether or not the allocation of educational messages among risk factors is appropriate: The severity of high cholesterol was compared with the severity of multiple other major risk factors for IHD, and the beneficial effects of cholesterol-reduction was compared with the benefits of multiple other major preventative factors for IHD. It was found that high cholesterol levels, and multiple other risk factors, generally give a risk of around 2.0 for developing IHD. Cholesterol-reduction by statins, and multiple other factors which prevent IHD, generally reduce the risk of IHD by about 30-40%. It was concluded that the allocation of educational messages to reduce the incidence of IHD should significantly increase discussions of non-cholesterol risk and preventative factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11735640
Orlistat is a nonsystemically acting gastric and pancreatic lipase inhibitor that limits the absorption of dietary fat. A retrospective pooled analysis of three 2-year, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trials involving patients with obesity revealed that orlistat recipients were more likely to experience an improvement, and less likely to experience a deterioration, in glucose tolerance status than placebo recipients. In comparison with placebo, orlistat recipients had significantly greater reductions in glycosylated haemoglobin and fasting plasma glucose levels in large, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled studies of 24 to 52 weeks' duration involving patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. In one such study, the dosage of concomitant sulphonylureas was able to be reduced in more orlistat than placebo recipients (43.2 vs 28.9%), with discontinuation of sulphonylurea therapy achieved in 11.7% of orlistat recipients. The most common adverse effects reported in orlistat recipients with type 2 diabetes mellitus relate to the gastrointestinal system and are similar to those reported in studies involving patients without type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11735645
Decreased insulin sensitivity plays a major role in various human diseases. particularly type 2 diabetes mellitus, and is associated with a higher risk of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular complications. Thiazolidinediones, more commonly termed glitazones, are the first drugs to specifically target muscular insulin resistance. They have proven efficacy for reducing plasma glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with diet alone, sulphonylureas, metformin or insulin. In addition, they are associated with some improvement of the cardiovascular risk profile. However, troglitazone, the first compound approved by the Food and Drug Administration in the US, proved to be hepatotoxic and was withdrawn from the market after the report of several dozen deaths or cases of severe hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation. It remains unclear whether or not hepatotoxicity is a class effect or is related to unique properties of troglitazone. Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone, two other glitazones, appear to have similar efficacy with regard to blood glucose control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus as compared with troglitazone. In controlled clinical trials, the incidence of significant (> or =3 x upper limit of normal) increases in liver enzyme levels (ALT in particular) was similar with rosiglitazone or pioglitazone as compared with placebo, whereas troglitazone was associated with a 3-fold greater incidence. In contrast to the numerous case reports of acute liver failure in patients receiving troglitzone, only a few case reports of hepatotoxicity have been reported in patients treated with rosiglitazone until now, with a causal relationship remaining uncertain. Furthermore, no single case of severe hepatotoxicity has been reported yet with pioglitazone. It should be mentioned that troglitazone, unlike pioglitazone and rosiglitazone, induces the cytochrome P450 isoform 3A4, which is partly responsible for its metabolism, and may be prone to drug interactions. Importantly enough, obesity, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus are associated with liver abnormalities, especially non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, independent of any pharmacological treatment. This association obviously complicates the selection of patients who are good candidates for a treatment with glitazones as well as the monitoring of liver tests after initiation of therapy with any thiazolidinedione compound. While regular monitoring of liver enzymes is still recommended and more long term data are desirable, current evidence from clinical trials and postmarketing experience in the US supports the conclusion that rosiglitazone and pioglitazone do not share the hepatotoxic profile of troglitazone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11735736
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11737581
Cardiovascular disease is a major challenge to nephrologists, whether we deal with patients with pre-end-stage renal failure, on dialysis or after successful renal transplantation. It is the most common cause for death in patients with a functional allograft, and prevents many dialysis patients from being engrafted. Coronary artery disease is a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge, as it differs in some respects from that seen in non-uremic cohorts, and lacks much of the evidence-base on which therapeutic intervention rests. This review examines the experimental and clinical literature on cardiovascular disease in uremia, focusing on coronary artery disease. We focus on the incidence, presenting syndromes, screening tools, and interventions in the context of acute and chronic coronary syndromes. Recent evidence comparing coronary angioplasty, coronary artery stenting, and bypass surgery in subjects with renal failure is also reviewed. Coronary artery disease is more prevalent in uremia, more difficult to diagnose and less rewarding to treat compared to non-uremic subjects. Many more randomized trials are needed. In the absence of information from such trials, we advocate aggressive control of conventional and novel cardiovascular risk factors, and early intervention for symptomatic coronary disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11738123
The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) is a practice-based, randomized, multicenter clinical trial in 42,419 high-risk hypertensive patients aged 55 years and older; 10,356 of these patients are also in a lipid-lowering trial component. The purpose of the antihypertensive component is to determine whether the occurrence of fatal coronary heart disease and/or nonfatal myocardial infarction differs between patients randomized to diuretic (chlorthalidone) and those randomized to either calcium antagonist (amlodipine), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (lisinopril), or alpha-adrenergic blocker (doxazosin) therapy. (The doxazosin arm has been discontinued.) The purpose of the lipid-lowering component is to determine whether lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with a 3-hydroxymethyl-glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (pravastatin) in moderately hypercholesterolemic patients will reduce all-cause mortality compared to a control group receiving "usual care." ALLHAT recruited patients from a variety of practice settings from February 1994 through January 1998. Sites were paid for randomizations and are paid for completed follow-up visits and documented study events. Communication and monitoring were facilitated by nine regional coordinator teams. It was recognized from the outset that patient recruitment would be a very large task because of the number of participants (> 40,000) needed, the ambitious nature of the goal for recruitment of African-Americans (> 55%), and the knowledge that many investigators had limited experience recruiting participants for clinical trials. Multiple adjustments in the initial ALLHAT overall recruitment plan facilitated achievement of sample size goals for both components of the trial. The experience obtained from this large trial should be valuable for the planning and implementation of successful recruitment in future trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11738278
The goal of this study was to determine the long-term effects of statins and antioxidant vitamins on flow-mediated vasodilation of the brachial artery in older adults with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11738308
We sought to investigate whether statin therapy affects the association between preprocedural C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and the risk for recurrent coronary events in patients undergoing coronary stent implantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11738332
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11738334
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11739979
Recent investigations have suggested an important role of statins in the prevention of stroke and dementia independent of their lipid-lowering properties. Using transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD), we examined acetazolamide reactivity as a marker of cerebral vasoreactivity in patients with subcortical small-vessel disease before and after pravastatin treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11741564
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11748098
Patients with low HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) and elevated triglyceride had an increased risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) events and received the greatest benefit with fibrate therapy in substudy analyses of the Helsinki Heart Study and the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11748225
Human organic anion transporting polypeptide 2 (OATP2/SLC21A6) and multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2/ABCC2) play important roles in the vectorial transport of organic anions across hepatocytes. In the present study, we have established a double-transfected Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK II) cell monolayer, which expresses both OATP2 and MRP2 on basal and apical membranes, respectively. The basal-to-apical transport of 17 beta estradiol 17 beta-d-glucuronide (E(2)17 beta G), pravastatin, and leukotriene C(4) (LTC(4)), which are substrates of OATP2 and MRP2, was significantly higher than that in the opposite direction in the double-transfected cells. Such vectorial transport was also observed for taurolithocholate sulfate, which is transported by rat oatp1 and Mrp2. The K(m) values of E(2)17 beta G and pravastatin for the basal-to-apical flux were 27.9 and 24.3 microm, respectively, which were comparable with those reported for OATP2. Moreover, the MRP2-mediated export of E(2)17 beta G across the apical membrane was not saturated. In contrast, basal-to-apical transport of estrone-3-sulfate and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, which are significantly transported by OATP2, but not by MRP2, was not stimulated by MRP2 expression. The double-transfected MDCK II monolayer expressing both OATP2 and MRP2 may be used to analyze the hepatic vectorial transport of organic anions and to screen the transport profiles of new drug candidates.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11749112
This case report describes the development of asymptomatic visual field defects (VFDs) in a psychiatric patient with bipolar disorder receiving adjunctive tiagabine treatment. These defects were apparently reversible upon the discontinuation of tiagabine. Controlled clinical trials are indicated to determine if this finding is indicative of a class effect for all GABAergic antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), as already noted with vigabatrin, or if this case represents an incidental finding with tiagabine (41 references).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11750563
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11751664
To assess acute tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) release in vivo in patients with hypercholesterolaemia in the presence and absence of lipid lowering treatment and in matched normocholesterolaemic controls.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11753902
Hypercholesterolemia is a common complication of liver transplantation and is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease after renal and heart transplant. The effect of hyperlipidemia after liver transplantation is less certain, but a less favorable outcome is to be expected. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors or statins have proven efficacy in reducing serum cholesterol and mortality from cardiovascular disease in the general population. Early evidence shows that statins are safe and effective in treating hypercholesterolemia after liver transplantation. Studies in cardiovascular disease have shown that statins exhibit beneficial properties independent of lipid-lowering. These include anti-inflammatory effects and improvement in endothelial function. Recently, statins were shown to repress induction of major histocompatibility complex class II complexes by interferon-gamma, which in turn suppresses activation of T lymphocytes. Such effects may assume significance when using statins after solid-organ transplants. Pravastatin has been shown to reduce acute rejection after cardiac and renal transplantation and to also reduce natural killer cell cytotoxicity in these populations. It remains to be seen whether statins will demonstrate similar benefits after liver transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11755921
Lipoprotein subclass analyses may facilitate coronary heart disease (CHD) risk stratification and provide insight into the cardioprotective benefits of statins (3-hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors). This study evaluated the influence of pravastatin on lipoprotein subclass profiles to determine whether subjects with predominantly large LDL (LDL size >20.5 nm) or small LDL (LDL size < or =20.5 nm) at baseline differ in responsiveness to drug treatment. Frozen plasma specimens were analyzed from a subset of participants in the Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronaries (PLAC-I) trial at baseline and after treatment for 6 months with pravastatin (n=154) or placebo (n=138). Lipids were measured by standard chemical methods and lipoprotein subclasses by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Pravastatin-induced changes in lipid levels were similar in subjects with large or small LDL at baseline. Levels of the most abundant LDL subclass were preferentially lowered by pravastatin, resulting in an increase in average LDL size for those with a predominance of small LDL. High-risk CHD subjects with small LDL particles gain at least as much pharmacological benefit from pravastatin as those with large LDL, as evidenced by reductions in the numbers of total and small LDL particles, and increases in average LDL and HDL particle size.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11755933
Plasma fibrinogen is strongly associated with cardiovascular morbi-mortality. We investigated in the large cohort of the D.E.S.I.R. (data from an epidemiological study on the insulin resistance syndrome) study, the relationship between change in fibrinogen concentration over a 3-year follow-up and fibrate and statin use. Fibrinogen concentrations were higher at baseline among individuals treated with statins (n=130) compared to those treated with fibrates (n=251), even after adjustment for confounding factors (including total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and triglycerides) (mean (S.D.): 2.8 (0.6) vs. 3.1 (0.6), P<0.001). We compared change in fibrinogen concentrations at 3 years of follow-up, between individuals who started fibrate (n=126) or statin (n=127) treatment during the follow-up and individuals (n=3906) who stayed without treatment during this period. After adjustment for baseline fibrinogen level, age, sex and changes in total cholesterol, triglycerides and alcohol intake, fibrinogen concentration decreased after fibrate treatment, while it increased after statin treatment and in those not using lipid lowering drugs (-0.07 (0.54) vs. 0.10 (0.54) vs. 0.08 (0.52) g/l respectively, P=0.01). No differences were observed between different statins or different fibrates. In conclusion, fibrates in contrast with statins may combine lipid-lowering with a beneficial effect on fibrinogen. This effect is independent of changes in cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11755936
Improvement of endothelial function in hypercholesterolaemia is attributed to lipid lowering and to pleiotropic effects of statin therapy. We investigated whether responsiveness to inhibition of constitutive NO formation with N-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) is improved after 7 and 28 days of pravastatin. Twelve female and four male subjects with mild or moderate primary hypercholesterolaemia were randomized to pravastatin (20 mg per oral (p.o.) n=8) or placebo (n=8) in a double blind parallel group design. Vascular responsiveness was studied by intravenous bolus infusions of L-NMMA (cumulative doses of 3 and 6 mg/kg). Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and pulse rate (PR) were measured noninvasively, pulsatile choroidal blood flow was assessed with laser interferometric measurement of fundus pulsation amplitudes (FPA) and renal plasma flow (RPF) was measured by the PAH clearance method. Pravastatin lowered plasma cholesterol levels by 16 and 24% after 7 and 28 days of treatment, respectively (P<0.01). L-NMMA caused comparable changes in MAP, PR and RPF between groups. L-NMMA reduced FPA to a similar extent in both groups before and after 7 days of treatment, but the response to L-NMMA was significantly enhanced after 28 days of pravastatin (21%; P<0.001 vs baseline) and greater than after placebo (15%; P<0.01 vs pravastatin). Pravastatin enhances responsiveness to L-NMMA in the ocular microvasculature. Improved responsiveness is associated with changes in total cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11755944
To examine how prevalence of the small dense LDL phenotype (LDL particle diameter < or =25.5 nm) is associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) in type 2 diabetic and non-diabetic Japanese men, an ethnic group with a low incidence of CAD, 85 non-diabetic men and 45 type 2 diabetic men with angiographically documented CAD, and 142 control men and 76 type 2 diabetic men without CAD were studied. Mean LDL particle diameter was determined using 2-16% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. LDL particle diameters in CAD patients were much smaller than those in controls (25.2+/-0.7 vs. 26.0+/-0.4 nm, mean+/-S.D., P<0.0001). LDL size was smaller in diabetic subjects (25.6+/-0.6 nm) and became even smaller in diabetics with CAD (25.0+/-1.0 nm). Prevalence of small dense LDL was markedly higher in both non-diabetic and diabetic CAD patients than that in non-diabetic and diabetic patients without CAD (71, 76, 23 and 42%, respectively). CAD patients had lower HDL-cholesterol and apo A1 levels, and higher triglyceride levels than those in diabetic and non-diabetic CAD-free patients, while total- and LDL-cholesterol levels were even lower in CAD group, and remnant-like particle-cholesterol, lipoprotein (a) and insulin levels were comparable among four groups. LDL size was significantly associated with triglyceride, HDL-cholesterol and glycemic control. Logistic regression analysis revealed that the small dense LDL phenotype was significantly associated with the incidence of CAD independent of low levels of HDL-cholesterol or high levels of triglyceride in both non-diabetic and diabetic cases. These results suggest that high prevalence of small dense LDL is a leading cause of CAD in both diabetic and non-diabetic Japanese men. Type 2 diabetes shows a greater capacity to reduce LDL size, which may contribute to the high incidence of CAD in the diabetic population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11756992
Pneumolysin (PLY), a toxin synthesized by Streptococcus pneumoniae, is an important virulence factor in pneumococcal disease. This study evaluated the effects of PLY in lungs of mice. Intranasal inoculation with PLY was associated with a dose-dependent influx of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and increased concentrations of interleukin (IL)-6, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-2, and KC in BALF. PLY mutants with either reduced cytolytic activity or reduced cytolytic and complement-activating activities were less potent in inducing PMNL recruitment to the lung (P<.05), which suggests that PLY cytolytic activity is very important for the inflammatory response. IL-6 and MIP-2 also played a role in PLY-induced PMNL recruitment; this response was partially diminished in IL-6 gene-deficient mice and in mice treated with anti-MIP-2 antiserum. PLY may play an important role in the induction of an inflammatory response in the pulmonary compartment in the early phase of pneumococcal pneumonia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11757504
Both lipid-modifying therapy and antioxidant vitamins are thought to have benefit in patients with coronary disease. We studied simvastatin-niacin and antioxidant-vitamin therapy, alone and together, for cardiovascular protection in patients with coronary disease and low plasma levels of HDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11758073
(i) To analyse how well Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) criteria for prescribing lipid-lowering therapy identify people most at risk of coronary heart disease (CHD); and (ii) to determine the cost-effectiveness of primary prevention therapy with pravastatin according to these criteria in Australia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11758079
Myopathy occurs in 0.1%-0.2% of patients receiving statins in clinical trials. This adverse effect is shared by all statins, but is more common with cerivastatin, especially in combination with gemfibrozil. The risk of myopathy is increased by: the use of high doses of statins, concurrent use of fibrates, concurrent use of hepatic cytochrome P450 inhibitors, acute viral infections, major trauma, surgery, hypothyroidism and other conditions. Statin-associated myopathy should be suspected when a statin-treated patient complains of unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. Statin therapy should be stopped in cases of suspected myopathy, and serum creatine kinase levels should be checked and monitored. No specific therapies other than statin withdrawal and supportive measures for rhabdomyolysis are currently available.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11758081
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11759948
Hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, two major risk factors for atherosclerotic disease, frequently coexist in patients with hypertension and CAD. Data from clinical studies suggest the existence of lipoprotein-neurohormonal interactions that may adversely affect vascular structure and reactivity. Data from preclinical studies suggest that RAS may be upregulated by abnormal lipids, most likely via production of ox-LDL. On the other hand, activation of RAS leads to release of ROS and transcriptional upregulation of LDL and ox-LDL uptake in macrophages, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells. These findings extend our understanding of the interplay among risk factors to synergistically increase cardiovascular risk, and of the anti-atherosclerotic effects of local ACE inhibition to reduce cardiovascular risk. Trials aimed at modifying RAS along with drugs lowering total- and LDL-cholesterol levels and inhibitors of oxidative modification of LDL-cholesterol will address the clinical relevance of this biological interaction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11760542
According to guidelines, medical treatment of dyslipidaemia in post-AMI patients should await assessment of underlying lipid disorders and the outcome of dietary treatment. The risk of patients not being treated with lipid-lowering therapy because of lack of follow-up has led to more aggressive guidelines recommending statin treatment even before discharge from hospital. In a study comprising 730 patients, we have shown that, although most patients were discharged from the coronary care unit without statin treatment, a traditional rehabilitation programme succeeded in assessing more than 95% of the patients for underlying lipid disorders, and more than 75% of patients with plasma cholesterol > or = 5.5 mmol/l received lipid-lowering therapy within the first year. Most patients were treated with statins. Statins, however, were given in smaller doses than those used in the clinical trials, and only 52% of the treated patients reached the recommended goal of plasma cholesterol lower than 5 mmol/l.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11763158
Type 2 diabetes is associated with multiple metabolic abnormalities including insulin resistance and the procoagulant state. Thiazolidenediones are an emerging class of insulin sensitizers which have the potential to mitigate many of the complications of diabetes. Mechanisms of action of the thiazolidenediones are discussed together with their possible pitfalls. Presently, evidence to clearly define the role of thiazolidenedionesfor the treatment of type 2 diabetes is lacking.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11763159
Diabetes affects millions of people worldwide. The most common variants are type 1 diabetes with autoimmune destruction of the pancreatic beta-cells and type 2 diabetes with peripheral insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction. In spite of tremendous research, current pharmacological regimens are still sub-optimal for adequate blood glucose control. As a consequence, patients with diabetes are at significant risk for development of serious long-term complications, such as blindness and kidney disease. This review will discuss present and future strategies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes with a focus on the more recently recognized problems of beta-cell dysfunction and loss. The treatment strategies presented include promotion of beta-cell proliferation and differentiation by glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11764864
The steady increase in resistant organisms is related to the widespread use of antibiotics in community and hospital settings. New therapeutic options are needed, including treatments for infections caused by antibiotic-resistant gram-positive organisms. Quinupristin-dalfopristin, the first formulation of a distinct class of antibiotics known as the streptogramins, has activity against a range of gram-positive bacteria that are usually resistant to other agents, including vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium. The pharmacodynamic (postantibiotic effect) and pharmacokinetic characteristics of quinupristin-dalfopristin allow dosing at eight- to 12-hour intervals. The safety profile of the formulation is generally favorable, with no demonstrable ototoxicity, nephrotoxicity, bone marrow suppression, or cardiovascular adverse effects. Reversible arthralgias, myalgias, and peripheral venous irritation are the formulation's major side effects. A potential for drug interactions exists because quinupristin-dalfopristin significantly inhibits the cytochrome P450-3A4 enzyme system. Quinupristin-dalfopristin has been shown to be effective in the management of documented severe infections caused by vancomycin-resistant E. faecium, nosocomial pneumonia, and infections related to the use of intravascular catheters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11765297
To measure the impact that economic relief for prescription drugs to indigent patients with cardiovascular disease has on indicators of disease control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11765310
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11770860
From the initial stages of leukocyte recruitment to diseased endothelium, to eventual rupture of unstable atheromatous plaque, pro-inflammatory mechanisms mediate key steps in atherogenesis and its complications. Lipid lowering, both with diet and statin therapy, has been shown to have favorable effects on inflammatory processes in atheromatous plaque. Several plasma markers of inflammation have been found to predict future cardiovascular risk, both among patients with acute coronary syndromes and myocardial infarction, and among healthy men and women. C-reactive protein (CRP), a pattern recognition molecule linked to the innate immune system, is a sensitive marker of low-grade vascular inflammation, which may also have direct pro-inflammatory actions. Recent studies have shown that statin therapy may lower CRP levels independent of lipid-lowering effects. Statin therapy may also be highly effective for the prevention of cardiovascular events among individuals with elevated CRP levels. The role of statin therapy for plaque stabilization in acute coronary syndromes, and for prevention of future plaque rupture among healthy individuals with evidence of vascular inflammation, is an area of active research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11770871
In the last decade, large-scale clinical trials have consistently shown that therapy with statins is of great benefit to patients with and at risk of developing coronary artery disease. We assessed, in a sample of patients with coronary artery disease in whom coronary angiography was indicated and hospitalized in the last 10 years, the use of statins at admission.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772284
The development of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (the statins) has lead to important advances in the management of cardiovascular disease. There have several landmark mortality and morbidity clinical trials with the statins. The 4S (Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study) was the first large-scale randomised cholesterol-lowering trial to show a decrease in mortality. In patients with coronary heart disease and relatively high cholesterol, simvastatin decreased mortality, hospital stays, the risk of undergoing myocardial re-vascularisation, stroke and transient ischaemic attack. The CARE (Cholesterol and Recurrent Events) trial showed that lowering average cholesterol levels after myocardial infarction with pravastatin reduced a composite primary end point of coronary mortality and myocardial infarction, coronary bypass surgery, angioplasty and strokes. The LIPID (Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaaemic Disease) study showed that lowering average cholesterol levels after previous myocardial infarction or unstable angina reduced mortality. WOSCOPS (The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study) was the first trial to demonstrate the benefit of pravastatin, as primary prevention for cardiovascular disease, in men with high cholesterol levels. AFCAPS/Tex CAPS (The Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study) showed that the benefits of lowering cholesterol levels were also evident in healthy men and women who initially had average cholesterol levels. Rather surprisingly the reductions in mortality and morbidity with statins are only associated with small improvements in coronary angiographic findings. A preliminary study indicated than lovastatin prevented restenosis, but larger and better-controlled studies indicate that the statins do not have beneficial effects in restenosis. Effects other than lipid-lowering or as a consequence of their lipid-lowering may contribute to the beneficial effects of statins. These effects include improvement in vascular endothelial function, cardiac remodelling, changes in blood rheology, anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-hypertensive actions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772290
The beneficial effect of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) in primary prevention of coronary artery disease in those with hypercholesterolaemia and in secondary prevention in those with established coronary vascular disease are now well known. A growing body of evidence suggests that statins also possess important additional clinical benefits, such as stroke risk reduction. In this article we review the evidence that statins may be neuroprotective, especially in the brain parenchyma during stroke. We also review the observational data that statins may prevent the onset of dementia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772294
An elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level is a strong predictor of coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. Over the past seven years, equally strong evidence has accumulated that lowering LDL cholesterol with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors or statins reduces CHD risk and there is now widespread use of these agents for the primary and secondary prevention of CHD. Treatment issues remain regarding the appropriate degree of LDL cholesterol reduction and whether, in people with very high levels, it would be preferable to achieve the LDL cholesterol goal with a powerful statin alone or combined with an agent that lowers LDL cholesterol by a different mechanism. The main focus in the development of novel agents is the patient with low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, usually associated with hypertriglyceridaemia. Already prevalent as a risk factor for CHD, this abnormality has been linked with insulin resistance, which is likely to increase greatly over the next decade, along with increasing obesity and diabetes. Agents that have potent HDL cholesterol raising capacity include cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) inhibitors, retinoid X receptor (RXR) selective agonists, specific peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists and oestrogen-like compounds. Another area of development involves agents that will lower both cholesterol and triglyceride levels, such as partial inhibitors of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) and perhaps squalene synthase inhibitors and agonists of AMP kinase. Future emphasis will be on correcting all lipid abnormalities for the prevention of CHD, not just lowering LDL cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772295
Inflammation is a reaction to primary injury of various kinds, such as infection and trauma, which has both beneficial and detrimental effects. Inflammation has been associated with major diseases of the heart and vessels. Research has focused not only on ischaemia but also on post-ischaemic reperfusion, which is known to activate and amplify the inflammatory response. Although reperfusion should always be attempted in the clinical environment, it has been shown experimentally that it can cause some cardiac damage, in addition to that caused by ischaemia. Therefore, it is reasonable to attempt to increase the benefit obtainable with reperfusion by modulating inflammatory processes triggered by reperfusion itself. In this field, different potential therapeutic targets have been identified and interventions have been tested over the last 30 years. With the exception of adenosine, which probably does not act merely through inhibition of the inflammatory response, no other compounds have yet proven successful in clinical trials. Active research is ongoing. Broadening the approach from the heart to the cardiovascular system, promising data is emerging on cardiovascular protection conferred by statins in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and high levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), a systemic marker of inflammation. Similarly, results of trials aimed at preventing cardiovascular events by eradicating chronic infections will be among the first to directly test whether such therapies will decrease risks of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772305
Hypertension was identified as a cardiovascular risk factor in the late fifties and still remains a public health issue. The number of patients treated reaches only half of those diagnosed and, of those treated, half fail to reach target blood pressure. Furthermore, the number of antihypertensive drugs reaching the market has increased exponentially in the last few years, however, the impact on treatment and on attaining target blood pressure levels remains to be seen. The high percentage of treated patients who do not reach target blood pressure, combined with the high number of patients requiring more than one antihypertensive drug, have triggered a series of long-term morbidity and mortality trials comparing different therapeutic approaches ('new' pharmacological classes vs. 'old' pharmacological classes). These are described in this paper.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772316
Current therapy for hepatitis C remains far from optimal. The modification of IFN by the attachment of a polyethylene glycol (PEG) moiety has produced long-lasting IFNs. A 40 kDa branched peginterferon alfa-2a (40 kDa) (PEG-IFN alfa-2a) has unique pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties. PEG-IFN alfa-2a is absorbed in a sustained manner and its clearance is reduced substantially compared with IFN alfa-2a, resulting in sustained serum drug concentrations. These constant serum drug levels stay above the EC(50) values (effective concentration 50%) needed for antiviral, antiproliferative and immunomodulatory actions. Sustained virological responses were significantly greater in patients who received PEG-IFN alfa-2a versus IFN alfa-2a, with a similar side effect profile. Histological improvements were seen in patients who achieved sustained virological responses and were frequently observed among patients who did not achieve a virological response. The advantages of PEG-IFN alfa-2a were also seen in patients with cirrhosis or hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772420
Few principles in medicine today are as well accepted as the benefits of using statins to reduce cardiovascular risk factors and to prevent cardiovascular disease. The recent withdrawal of a statin (cerivastatin) has lead to a re-examination of all statins, and an attempt to better assess the risk-benefit ratio of this class of drugs. Although the benefits of statin treatment are well known from a myriad of clinical trials, the safety of these compounds has not been an issue since lovastatin was first introduced in 1987. This report provides a brief review of statin safety, and reiterates the excellent profile of this class of drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11772421
Inflammation is involved in the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis and the development of atherosclerotic events. Understanding of the molecular basis of inflammation has led to the identification of markers that may be important new targets in atherothrombotic disease. Inflammatory markers, such as cell adhesion molecules, cytokines, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, have been shown to predict future cardiovascular events in individuals with and without established disease. 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors, or statins, inhibit the synthesis of cholesterol and have been demonstrated to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Recently, statins have been shown to modulate several of the mechanisms of inflammation in atherosclerosis in vitro and in vivo, including reduction of inflammatory markers in clinical trials. In this article, we briefly review the biology, epidemiology, and clinical trial data on the effects of statins on some of the more promising inflammatory markers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11773670
To determine the cost-effectiveness of secondary prevention with pravastatin in Hong Kong patients with coronary heart disease and average cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11773716
A recent debate has emerged as to the risk-benefit ratio of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins). This debate has centered on the withdrawal of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor cerivastatin (Baycol). Its withdrawal was prompted by an unacceptably high rate of rhabdomyolysis associated with its use. The development of rhabdomyolysis in cerivastatin-treated patients surprised few, since myotoxicity is a class effect with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. What has sprung from the cerivastatin experience, though, is the concept of "guilt by association"; thus, other members of this class are now viewed in a similarly negative light. Such misgivings are understandable, but to a degree may be ill-advised, since differences exist in the risk and therefore the rate of rhabdomyolysis occurrence among the various HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. In this regard, pravastatin and fluvastatin are least likely to provoke muscle cell damage, which, at least in part, relates to their not being metabolized by the cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 3A4 pathway. When muscle damage does occur with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, it is commonly the result of drug-drug interactions rather than a specific adverse response to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor monotherapy. Such drug-drug interactions inevitably result in higher plasma concentrations of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor and thereby an increased risk of myotoxicity. A growing consensus supports an expanded use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in elderly patients. Polypharmacy and altered drug metabolism both put the elderly patient at increased risk of myotoxicity when drugs in the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor class are administered. Physicians must take many factors into account when selecting a member of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor class, particularly as relates to their use in the multiply medicated elderly patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11773719
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11774104
Chronic renal insufficiency is characterized by specific abnormalities in lipoprotein metabolism, affecting both apolipoprotein A (apo A)- and apo B-containing lipoproteins. To evaluate the effects of fluvastatin, a synthetic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, on renal dyslipoproteinemia, we performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-way, period cross-over study. Study patients were administered fluvastatin, 40 mg/d, or placebo during 8 weeks in randomized order. Forty-five nonnephrotic patients (28 men, 17 women) without diabetes with moderate to advanced chronic renal insufficiency participated in the study. Their mean age was 56.4 +/- 11.0 years. Glomerular filtration rate ranged from 12 to 44 mL/min/1.73 m2 of body surface area (mean, 27.5 +/- 10.5 mL/min/1.73 m2). Fluvastatin treatment resulted in significant reductions in the primary outcome variables low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C; -26%; P < 0.001), apo B (-21%; P < 0.001), and lipoprotein B complex (Lp-Bc) (-14%; P < 0.01). There were statistically significant differences between fluvastatin and placebo treatment for the secondary outcome variables total cholesterol (-19%), triglycerides (TGs; -13%), VLDL-C (-13%), apo E (-13%), and Lp-B (-22%). There was no treatment effect on high-density lipoprotein cholesterol or lipoprotein(a). Fluvastatin treatment was well tolerated, with no serious adverse events during the study. In conclusion, fluvastatin treatment was well tolerated in patients with moderately advanced renal insufficiency and led to a significant reduction in cholesterol-rich, but to a lesser extent in TG-rich, apo B-containing lipoproteins. It remains to be clarified whether these positive changes in lipoprotein profile also will result in attenuation of the atherosclerotic process in these patients, as well as beneficially affect the progression of chronic renal failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11777291
High-dose preparations of simvastatin and atorvastatin have recently become available to treat resistant hypercholesterolaemia aggressively, but few studies have compared these two agents. This study compared the efficacy of simvastatin 80 mg and 120 mg in 22 patients with severe familial hypercholesterolaemia over a three-month period using an open label format. Simvastatin 120 mg was reasonably well tolerated and delivered a further 8% reduction in LDL over 80 mg, giving a total reduction of 55 +/- 13%, while further decreasing triglycerides (18%) and continuing to raise HDL (13%) further than the 80 mg dose. However, transient adverse changes were noted in both lipoprotein (a) and fibrinogen and 20% of patients were unable to tolerate the higher dose. One late case of rhabdomyolysis was observed, suggesting patients on the 120 mg dose require continued regular review.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11779513
Statin therapy reduces clinical events in patients with stable coronary artery disease. Recent data indicate that the beneficial effects of statin therapy may also extend to patients experiencing an acute ischemic coronary event. However, the potential role of statins to further modify clinical outcome in patients undergoing coronary stent implantation has not been addressed. Therefore, we investigated whether the initiation of statin therapy immediately after successful coronary stent implantation improves short-term clinical outcome in 704 patients (335 patients with stable angina pectoris [AP], 224 patients with unstable AP, and 145 patients with Q-wave acute myocardial infarction [AMI]). Compared with the lowest risk group (patients with stable AP receiving statin therapy), patients with unstable AP (RR 6.9, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.5 to 31, p = 0.004) and patients with Q-wave AMI (RR 7.6, 95% CI 1.5 to 37, p = 0.004) experienced an increased risk for the occurrence of the primary combined end point of cardiac death and AMI. Importantly, initiation of statin therapy abrogated the increased risk in patients with unstable AP to the level of patients with stable AP receiving statin therapy (RR 1.5, 95% CI 0.2 to 11, p = 0.7). In contrast, statin therapy did not affect the RR in patients with Q-wave AMI during 6-month follow-up (RR 7.9, 95% CI 1.6 to 39 vs RR 7.6, 95% CI 1.5 to 37, p = NS). The beneficial effects of statin therapy after successful coronary stent implantation in unstable AP were most prominent during the first 4 weeks after the ischemic episode. Statins appear to contribute to the rapid transformation of unstable coronary artery disease into a stable condition with a very low event rate over the forthcoming 6 months in patients with unstable AP undergoing successful coronary stent implantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11779522
In adults and older children, heart rate variability (HRV) is frequently used to study autonomic function noninvasively. Normal values of HRV in newborn infants, however, are not widely available. This problem may be partially attributed to the lack of standardization of different methods. This study assessed HRV in normal newborn infants using 24-hour Holter monitoring. From 1997 to 2000, we prospectively evaluated frequency- (spectral analysis), geometric-, and time-domain indexes of HRV in normal term infants. Ninety-six asymptomatic infants who were <72 hours old were studied. Frequency-domain parameters (power in the high, low, very low, ultra low, and total frequency domains), a geometric parameter (HRV triangular index), and time-domain parameters (SDNN, SDANN, SDNNi, r-MSSD, s-NN50) are reported as means +/- SD, medians, and 5th and 95th percentiles to establish the normative values for newborns. A high degree of correlation (r > or = 0.85, p <0.0001) was noted among the 3 vagal tone dependent parameters, such as high-frequency power (frequency domain), r-MSSD, and s-NN50 (time domain). Our study supports the use of vagal dependent time-domain parameters like r-MSSD and sNN50 as surrogates for high-frequency power in newborns. Because the data are reported as means +/- SD, medians, and 5th and 95th percentiles, their use facilitates the study of parasympathetic and sympathetic activity in comparable populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11779527
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11781127
This study analyzes the utilization of statin lipid-lowering drugs in a Canadian province using a population-wide drug prescription database. The utilization pattern is compared to the results of a systematic review of randomized controlled trials on their effectiveness. The study found that 74.7% of individuals prescribed a statin had no reported history of coronary heart disease (CHD). Women without CHD formed 23.1% of statins recipients; 32.9% of individuals filling a statin prescription were age 70 and over. Only 15.3% of men with CHD had been prescribed a statin. Based on the systematic review, 88.7% of the utilization of statins in this Canadian province was not supported by the results of the systematic review. Considering baseline lipid-levels does not substantially alter these findings. This study concludes that statins prescribing practices need to be realigned with research evidence. This implies refocusing utilization away from women and the elderly, towards men with CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11783599
Impairment of renal function, severe proteinuria and arterial hypertension are the strongest clinical predictors of an unfavorable outcome in IgA nephropathy (IgAN). Glomerulosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis are the most reliable histologic prognostic markers. Metabolic syndrome and insulin resistance probably affect the clinical course of the disease. Among the known gene polymorphism it seems that there is a link between the ACE gene D allele and the progression of IgAN. Elevated blood pressure should be actively treated. The target blood pressure is 130/80 mmHg or less and the goal should also be to reduce proteinuria. Several large-scale trials are currently testing corticosteroids and other drugs in the treatment of IgAN.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11786112
BACKGROUND.: Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) suffer from markedly higher rates of cardiovascular disease than the general population. Although therapy with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors ("statins") has been demonstrated to reduce the mortality from cardiovascular disease in patients without ESRD, only 10% of patients on dialysis are treated with these medications by day 60 of ESRD. We determined whether the use of statins is associated with a reduction in cardiovascular-specific death and total mortality in ESRD patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11786154
Beneath its lipid-lowering properties additional non-lipid effects of statin therapy are discussed. We therefore examined the impact of statins on laboratory markers of coagulation, inflammation and soluble cell adhesion to further explore these effects in 950 hospitalised patients with angiographically proven CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11786451
To determine the effects of antiplatelet therapy among patients at high risk of occlusive vascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11786505
1. The results of several clinical studies investigating the effect of statin therapy on the fibrinolytic system in vivo are inconclusive. We compared the effect of six different statins (atorvastatin, cerivastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin) on components of the fibrinolytic system expressed by human vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells and by the human hepatoma cell line HepG2. 2. All statins used except pravastatin significantly decreased PAI-1 production in human endothelial and smooth muscle cells. This effect was also seen in the presence of IL-1 alpha and TNF-alpha. All statins except pravastatin increased t-PA production in human smooth muscle cells. On a molar basis cerivastatin was the most effective HMG CoA reductase inhibitor used. Only simvastatin and lovastatin increased t-PA production in endothelial cells. The effects on the fibrinolytic system were reversed by mevalonate. Statins decreased mRNA levels for PAI-1 in endothelial and smooth muscle cells and increased mRNA levels for t-PA in smooth muscle cells. Statins did not affect PAI-1 expression in HepG2 cells. Cell viability was not influenced by statins in endothelial cells and HepG2 cells whereas in smooth muscle cells a cytotoxic effect was seen at high concentrations. 3. If the effects on the fibrinolytic system of vascular cells in vitro shown in this study are also operative in vivo one could speculate that by increasing t-PA and decreasing PAI-1 at sites of vascular lesions statins might reduce fibrin formation and thrombus development. Such an effect might contribute to the clinically proven benefits of statin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11786509
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11788002
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11790688
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11790969
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11790971
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11792128
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11792134
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11792135
To assess the effects of pravastatin on all-cause mortality and cause-specific mortality and to compare the effects for patients with prior coronary heart disease with those for patients without, using pooled data from the Long-Term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaemic Disease (LIPID) study, the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE) study, and the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11792349
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11792351
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11793629
To review and compare clinical trials of cholesterol-lowering agents that evaluated clinical end points as the primary outcome measure; specifically, to determine whether all agents that decrease cholesterol impact clinical outcomes similarly.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11794427
To determine whether patients who had achieved their National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP)-derived goals for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol with pravastatin would benefit from step-down therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11794460
The first generation of multicenter randomized controlled trials of coronary artery bypass surgery vs medical treatment in the 1970s found survival advantage only in patients with left main coronary artery disease or with multiple risk factors. Over time, these results have remained reproducible and biologically plausible and continue to be the basis for contemporary guidelines for bypass surgery. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), which became available some 10 years after surgery, was compared with medical treatment in various clinical settings. Patients with stable angina receiving aggressive medical therapy had survival rates comparable to those undergoing PCI in several trials. In the presence of unstable angina, evidence suggests benefit from intervention after stabilization. In the setting of acute myocardial infarction or cardiogenic shock, PCI showed results superior to lytic therapy in centers with large PCI volume. A comparison of the 2 revascularization methods in the 1990s resulted in no overall 7-year survival difference except in patients with treated diabetes in whom bypass surgery prolonged life compared with angioplasty. None of the revascularizations had an effect on the incidence of myocardial infarctions, but importantly, the presence of bypass grafts reduced their fatal impact compared with both medical treatment and PCI. All revascularization trials reported improvement in quality of life, including symptoms, compared with less aggressive therapy. In the pursuit to explain 3 decades of steady decline of cardiovascular mortality in the United States, health economists attempted to model the decline due to availability of intervention by estimates obtained from contemporary randomized prevention and intervention trials. They concluded that, thus far, treatments have made a greater contribution to the decline than has primary prevention. Randomized trials not only contribute to evidence-based clinical practice, but also can reveal underlying biological mechanisms and provide quantitative data to model population trends. Thus, they should be regarded as the basic science of medical therapeutics and population health.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11795072
Compelling evidence from meta-analysis of a number of clinical studies on a large aggregate of patients has established an increased level of triglycerides as an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic heart disease. The finding of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins in human atheromata has provided substantial pathophysiologic evidence for a direct role in atherogenesis. Hypertriglyceridemia is commonly embedded in the context of a metabolic syndrome that includes central obesity, insulin resistance, low levels of HDL cholesterol, and often hypertension. Hypertriglyceridemia also appears to underlie the phenomenon of small dense LDL in most instances. Therapeutic interventions must be directed at underlying obesity, insulin resistance, and diabetes when present, as well as addressing metabolic determinants of dyslipidemia per se. Diet, exercise, weight loss, and avoidance of alcohol are the cornerstones of treatment. The choice of medication should be based on the lipoprotein phenotype. Niacin, fibric acid derivatives, and omega-3 fatty acids are most useful in treating severe hypertriglyceridemia. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are useful in some phenotypes with moderately increased triglyceride levels. Evidence from a number of clinical trials indicates that mitigation of risk of coronary heart disease, and possibly stroke, can be effected by reducing levels of plasma triglycerides.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11799261
To determine whether cerivastatin, a newly developed novel synthetic potent statin, exerts a renoprotective effect, we assessed urinary albumin excretion (UAE) and plasma and urinary endothelin (ET)-1 concentrations in normotensive microalbuminuric type 2 diabetes patients with dyslipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11801860
Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is the most common complication of diabetes. Recent guidelines in the USA have underlined the importance of treating lipid abnormalities in people with diabetes in order to reduce the risk of this complication. Should lifestyle approaches not be sufficient drugs will need to be added. The two most common classes of drugs to correct lipoprotein abnormalities are the statins and the fibrates. Each has a role to play and their use depends on the nature of the lipid abnormality that is present. Thus, rather than considering their use as an 'either/or' situation, this review will consider the uses of each class. In addition, as correcting the lipoprotein abnormalities may not account for all of the benefit produced by these agents, their non-lipid, pleotropic effects that may be antiatherogenic will also be reviewed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11801863
High levels of plasma lipids have been recognized as a major risk factor in the development and progression of atherosclerosis, and to influence hemorheological factors that may predispose to thrombotic complications. Lipid-lowering interventions have been associated with a significant reduction of morbidity and mortality. Several mechanisms have been postulated for the observed clinical effect. Serum lipid-regulating therapies may reduce cardiovascular risk not only by altering the arterial wall, improving disturbed endothelial function, atherogenesis and plaque stability, but also through their antithrombogenic effects and influence on blood flow properties associated with hyperlipidemia. In this article, we will review the recent literature and discuss the value of hemorheological-hemostatic findings as surrogate endpoints for clinical trials in dyslipidemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11807300
To utilize the potent antigen-presenting capacity of mature dendritic cells (MDC) in order to develop a rapid, sensitive method for quantifying antigen-specific CD8 T cells present at low frequency in peripheral blood.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11808936
Colorectal cancer is the third most incident cancer in the United States and is second only to lung cancer as a cause of cancer-related mortality. Colorectal cancer develops through a multistep process characterized by histopathological precursor lesions and molecular genetic alterations. This sequential process of tumorigenesis provides opportunities for the development and testing of both primary and secondary prevention strategies. This review focuses on chemoprevention, which is defined as the use of natural or synthetic agents to reverse the process of carcinogenesis. Epidemiological studies have consistently shown that chronic intake of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), principally aspirin, can reduce the incidence of colorectal adenomas and carcinomas. Evaluation of NSAIDs, including newer selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors, in carcinogen-induced and genetically manipulated animal models of colorectal cancer demonstrates that these drugs are effective chemopreventive agents. In humans, the NSAID sulindac has been studied in familial adenomatous polyposis patients and was found to regress colorectal adenomas in a placebo-controlled trial. More recently, the selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitor Celebrex was also shown to be effective in familial adenomatous polyposis and was approved by the Food and Drug Administration as a adjuct to usual care in these patients. NSAIDs, as well as other chemopreventive agents, are currently being studied in patients at increased risk of colorectal cancer, including those with sporadic adenomas. The outcome of these studies has the potential to impact patient management practices. However, chemopreventive agents cannot be recommeded at present for average-risk individuals or for those with sporadic colorectal neoplasia. In addition to demonstrating efficacy, chemopreventive agents must be safe and well tolerated for chronic administration and should be relatively cost-effective. Although still in its infancy, the field of chemoprevention is an exciting and rapidly advancing area of investigation. Chemopreventive strategies, if effective, offer the promise of producing a paradigm shift in our current approach to colorectal cancer.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11809001
The main efficacy criterion for drugs against osteoporosis is protection against fractures. Many resorption-inhibiting agents meet this criterion, including estrogens, alendronate, risedronate, raloxifene, calcitonin, and calcium-vitamin D supplements). Conversely, among anabolic agents, only parathyroid hormone (PTH) is known to reduce the fracture risk, the mechanism being increased bone matrix production by osteoblasts with no alterations in the mechanical properties of bone. Although fluoride salts induce a marked increase in bone mineral density (BMD), there is no evidence that this protects against vertebral or peripheral fractures. Growth hormone, IGF-I, statins, and strontium ranelate are under investigation. A recent controlled clinical trial in 1,637 women with osteoporosis showed that daily subcutaneous injections of PTH (1-34) (20 or 40 microg) for 21 months reduced the fracture risk. With 20 microg/day, the reductions were 65% for vertebral fractures and 57% for extravertebral fractures, 11% of patients had moderate postinjection hypercalcemia, and BMD increased by 9% at both the lumbar spine and the femoral neck. These findings open up the exciting possibility that PTH used alone or in combination with resorption-inhibiting agents may be helpful. To date, PTH is the only anabolic agent that has proved capable of reducing the risk of vertebral and extravertebral fractures in women with established postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11809427
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted in 52 centers in North America to compare the effects of the new, highly effective statin, rosuvastatin, with atorvastatin and placebo in hypercholesterolemic patients. After a 6-week dietary run-in, 516 patients with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol > or =4.14 mmol/L (160 mg/dl) and < 6.47 mmol/L (250 mg/dl) and triglycerides < or =4.52 mmol/L (400 mg/dl) were randomized to 12 weeks of once-daily placebo (n = 132), rosuvastatin 5 mg (n = 128), rosuvastatin 10 mg (n = 129), or atorvastatin 10 mg (n = 127). The primary efficacy end point was percent change in LDL cholesterol. Secondary efficacy variables were achievement of National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel II (ATP II), ATP III, and European Atherosclerosis Society LDL cholesterol goals and percent change from baseline in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, non-HDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and apolipoprotein A-I. Rosuvastatin 5 and 10 mg compared with atorvastatin 10 mg were associated with greater LDL cholesterol reductions (-40% and -43% vs 35%; p <0.01 and p <0.001, respectively) and HDL cholesterol increases (13% and 12% vs 8%, p <0.01 and p <0.05, respectively). Total cholesterol and apolipoprotein B reductions and apolipoprotein A-I increases were also greater with rosuvastatin; triglyceride reductions were similar. Rosuvastatin 5 and 10 mg were associated with improved achievement in ATP II (84% in both rosuvastatin groups vs 73%) and ATP III (84% and 82% vs 72%) LDL cholesterol goals, and rosuvastatin 10 mg was more effective than atorvastatin in achieving European Atherosclerosis Society LDL cholesterol goals. Both treatments were well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11811718
Most patients with an acute coronary syndrome should start taking a statin drug while still in the hospital if they are not already taking a statin, according to recent studies. In this situation, a statin drug should be started if the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) value is 130 mg/dL or higher, or perhaps even 100 mg/dL or higher.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11812397
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11812402
In vitro studies have shown that the neutrophil Fc gamma receptor IIA (FcgammaRIIA) polymorphism influences the phagocytic capacity of neutrophils and the removal of encapsulated bacteria from the bloodstream. In particular, the R/R131 allotype is associated with less phagocytic activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11812672
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11814176
Current data suggest that hormone replacement therapy (HRT) might have a beneficial role in the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD), osteoporosis, and dementia in postmenopausal women, but other therapies should be considered for the treatment of these conditions. In this review we evaluated the potential benefits of HRT for CVD, osteoporosis, and dementia, and compared HRT with proven, effective therapies. In addition, we identified the potential risks of breast and endometrial neoplasia, and an early risk of CVD and thromboembolic disease associated with HRT use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11816268
To review the currently available information on rosuvastatin in the treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11816337
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11818357
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is common although under-reported by patients. Along with the better known causes of ED, drug-induced impotence needs to be considered as a cause of this symptom. Lipid-lowering drugs have been prescribed increasingly. Their relationship to ED is controversial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11818488
Breast cancer risk reduction now represents an achievable medical objective. Current interventions include selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs), prophylactic surgery, and lifestyle change. For SERMs, current evidence supports tamoxifen use for breast cancer risk reduction whereas raloxifene requires further study. Prophylactic mastectomy and prophylactic oophorectomy, effective in retrospective clinical experiences, should be considered only for women at substantial risk willing to accept the irreversible consequences of these procedures. Although dietary fat intake is under clinical trial evaluation, lifestyle change, including weight loss, dietary change, and increased physical activity, can be recommended based on other health considerations. Use of any intervention requires careful breast cancer risk assessment, risk-benefit calculations, and informed decision making with full patient participation. Future breast cancer risk assessment may incorporate additional biologic measures of estrogen exposure and/or analyses of collected breast cells. Under active evaluation are novel SERMs, aromatase inhibitors/inactivators, gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonists, retinoids, statins, and tyrosine kinase and cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11819151
Epidemiological and clinical studies have described an association between lower serum cholesterol concentrations and increased suicide risk that is not entirely attributable to depression-related malnutrition and weight loss. Recent epidemiological studies with greater samples and longer follow-up periods, however, have even shown a positive correlation between cholesterol concentrations and suicide risk after controlling for potential confounding variables. A meta-analysis of earlier intervention trials suggested that cholesterol lowering could cause or worsen depressive symptoms and increase the risk of suicide. Large trials of statins (simvastatin, lovastatin, and pravastatin) did not show an increase of suicide mortality. The aim of this selective review is to critically discuss the current evidence for a potential link between cholesterol, essential fatty acids, depression, suicide, impulsivity, and aggression. Preclinical data support the hypothesis that cholesterol reduction may contribute to the serotonergic abnormalities that have been postulated in suicidal subjects. Recently, it was hypothesised that a decreased consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids, especially omega-3 fatty acids, may be a risk factor for depression and suicide. Currently, we do not have sufficient evidence that cholesterol-lowering therapies increase the risk of depression and suicide. Increasing the dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids may increase central serotonergic activity and reduce impulsive and aggressive behaviours.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11821324
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11821696
Increased intima-media thickness (IMT) is a non-invasive marker of early arterial wall alteration, which is easily assessed in the carotid artery by B-mode ultrasound, and more and more widely used in clinical research. Methods of IMT measurement can be categorized by two approaches: (i) measurement at multiple extracranial carotid sites in near and far walls and (ii) computerized measurement restricted to the far wall of the distal common carotid artery. Because IMT reflects global cardiovascular risk, its normal value might be better defined in terms of increased risk rather than in terms of statistical distribution within a healthy population. The available epidemiological data indicate that increased IMT (at or above 1 mm) represents a risk of myocardial infarction and/or cerebrovascular disease. Close relationships have been shown between: (i) most traditional cardiovascular risk factors; (ii) certain emerging risk factors such as lipoproteins, psychosocial status, plasma viscosity, or hyperhomocysteinemia; and (iii) various cardiovascular or organ damages such as white matter lesion of the brain, left ventricular hypertrophy, microalbuminuria or decreased ankle to brachial systolic pressure index. Thus, IMT gives a comprehensive picture of the alterations caused by multiple risk factors over time on arterial walls. Prospective primary and secondary prevention studies have also shown that increased IMT is a powerful predictor of coronary and cerebrovascular complications (risk ratio from 2 to 6) with a higher predictive value when IMT is measured at multiple extracranial carotid sites than solely in the distal common carotid artery. Therapeutic double-blind trials have shown that lipid-lowering drugs, such as resin and overall statines, and to a lesser extent antihypertensive drugs, such as calcium antagonists, may have a beneficial effect on IMT progression in asymptomatic or in coronary patients. However, methodological standardization of IMT measurement still needs to be implemented before routine measurement of IMT can be proposed in clinical practice as a diagnostic tool for stratifying cardiovascular risk in primary prevention and for aggressive treatment decision. It can be anticipated however, that the presence of increased carotid IMT in one individual with intermediate cardiovascular risk would lead to his classification into the high-risk category and thus influence the aggressiveness of risk factor modifications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11821701
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11822972
After acute myocardial infarction, patients remain at high risk for recurrent cardiovascular events and mortality. Despite the compelling scientific and clinical trial evidence that lipid-lowering medications reduce mortality in patients after acute myocardial infarction, this life-saving therapy continues to be underutilized. A number of studies in a variety of clinical settings have documented that a significant proportion of patients after myocardial infarction are not receiving treatment with lipid-lowering medications when guided by conventional care. It has recently been demonstrated that implementation of a hospital-based system for initiation of statins prior to hospital discharge results in a marked increase in treatment rates, improved long-term patient compliance, more patients reaching low-density lipoprotein levels of less than 100 mg/dL, and improved clinical outcomes. Adopting in-hospital initiation of lipid-lowering medications as the standard of care for patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction could dramatically improve treatment rates and thus substantially reduce the risk of future coronary events and prolong life in the large number of patients hospitalized each year.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11823672
Beta-adrenergic blockade has in several studies been shown to improve survival after myocardial infarction. In animal experiments beta-blockers have also shown an antiatherosclerotic effect. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that the beta-blocker metoprolol succinate controlled release/extended release (CR/XL), when given to patients with hypercholesterolemia on concomitant lipid-lowering therapy, provides an additional antiatherosclerotic effect to that provided by the statins, measured as carotid intima-media thickness (IMT).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11824669
In addition to lowering lipid levels, statins might reduce leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions. Therefore, we assessed whether this effect could limit the inflammatory response to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) in cardiac surgical patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11825315
There is compelling evidence that the endothelium is critical to normal coronary vascular function and that endothelial dysfunction, generally indicated by an impairment of endothelium-dependent vasodilatation, is an important component of coronary artery disease (CAD). Endothelial cells synthesise and release a number of factors, including prostacyclin, nitric oxide (NO), endothelium-derived hyperpolarising factor (EDHF) and endothelin, which are important in the regulation of vascular tone and the control of platelet and leukocyte adhesion, aggregation and migration. NO appears to be the critical factor in the preservation of normal coronary vascular function and there is a well-established correlation between CAD and an impairment of NO activity. Thus, to preserve endothelial function, drugs have been used to either increase the synthesis of NO, or to decrease its breakdown. Fortuitously, compounds such as the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, angiotensin (AT) converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), AT receptor antagonists and oestrogen, which have been introduced into clinical practice because of other beneficial effects, have also been shown to improve coronary endothelial function through a variety of mechanisms. In addition, L -arginine, the substrate for NO synthesis, and the anti-oxidants ascorbate and alpha-tocopherol, are able to increase NO synthesis and bioavailability respectively. Studies in experimental animals strongly support the ability of these agents to enhance the activity of endothelium-derived NO but clinical trials have failed to demonstrate reversal of established CAD. Whether these agents preserve endothelial function and prevent the development of CAD remains to be established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11825316
Primary and secondary prevention trials for coronary heart disease (CHD) in hyperlipidaemic or so-called 'normolipidaemic' patients with drugs affecting lipid metabolism have clearly confirmed that even slight alterations in lipoprotein metabolism are major risk factors for CHD. The global cardiovascular risk must be determined before deciding to treat patients with drugs affecting lipid metabolism. Screening for dyslipidaemia consists of determining cholesterol (C), LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C), HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) and triglyceride (TG) plasma levels and the decision to treat depends mainly on LDL-C plasma levels. Furthermore, secondary dyslipidaemia must be diagnosed and primary disease must be adequately treated. There are four classes of available lipid-regulating drugs: HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), bile acid sequestrants (resins), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR- alpha) activators (fibrates) and nicotinic acid. All four will be discussed in this review. Clinical trials have shown that drugs improving lipid metabolism reduce CHD relative risk from 24% (secondary prevention) to 37% (primary prevention) and the absolute risk from 2% (primary prevention) to 8.5% (secondary prevention). These studies indicate that the number of patients needed to be treated to economise one clinical event ranges from 12 (secondary prevention) to 50 (primary prevention). Clinical trials are currently testing the hypothesis that 'lower LDL-C is better'.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11825336
The UK National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) has recently published guidelines on prophylaxis for patients who have experienced a myocardial infarction (MI). Based on a previously commissioned extensive review of the literature, the recommendations are antiplatelet therapy, beta-blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) for all patients; statins for those with hypercholesterolaemia; spironolactone for those with moderate-to-severe heart failure (HF); and insulin for those with diabetes. While there may be concerns about some of the details (eg., the possible adverse interaction between aspirin and ACEIs), comments on the use of statins for those with HF, the lack of advice on the choice of lipid-lowering therapy for those intolerent of statins, the dangers of spironolactone therapy and the practicality of intensive insulin treatment, the guidelines are firmly based on sound evidence of efficacy and cost effectiveness. The NICE guidelines should therefore stimulate the provision of resources to address the gap between current practice and these recommendations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11829081
Osteoporosis is a skeletal disorder that is associated with lowered bone mineral density and increased risk of fracture. Numerous clinical trials have been conducted to study drugs and lifestyle changes that can either prevent bone loss in perimenopausal women or prevent fractures in women with established osteoporosis. The role of estrogen alone or in combination with androgen as hormone replacement therapy is discussed for its potential value in osteoporosis prevention and treatment. Additional therapies that are examined for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis include tibolone, bisphosphonates (alendronate and risedronate), selective estrogen-receptor modulators, calcitonin and parathyroid hormone. Experimental therapies that are in different phases of evaluation in osteoporosis management include statins as well as tumor necrosis factor-receptor antagonists. Other strategies include nonpharmacologic interventions, such as calcium supplements, vitamin D and exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11829698
Limited information exists on the interaction between diet and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) and the interaction's effect on serum lipid and lipoprotein levels, insulin sensitivity, and circulating antioxidant vitamin and provitamin levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11830753
Cilostazol (Pletal), a quinolinone derivative, has been approved in the U.S. for the treatment of symptoms of intermittent claudication (IC) since 1999 and for related indications since 1988 in Japan and other Asian countries. The vasodilatory and antiplatelet actions of cilostazol are due mainly to the inhibition of phosphodiesterase 3 (PDE3) and subsequent elevation of intracellular cAMP levels. Recent preclinical studies have demonstrated that cilostazol also possesses the ability to inhibit adenosine uptake, a property that may distinguish it from other PDE3 inhibitors, such as milrinone. Elevation of interstitial and circulating adenosine levels by cilostazol has been found to potentiate the cAMP-elevating effect of PDE3 inhibition in platelets and smooth muscle, thereby augmenting antiplatelet and vasodilatory effects of the drug. In contrast, elevation of interstitial adenosine by cilostazol in the heart has been shown to reduce increases in cAMP caused by the PDE3-inhibitory action of cilostazol, thus attenuating the cardiotonic effects. Cilostazol has also been reported to inhibit smooth muscle cell proliferation in vitro and has been demonstrated in a clinical study to favorably alter plasma lipids: to decrease triglyceride and to increase HDL-cholesterol levels. One, or a combination of several of these effects may contribute to the clinical benefits and safety of this drug in IC and other disease conditions secondary to atherosclerosis. In eight double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trials, cilostazol significantly increased maximal walking distance, or absolute claudication distance on a treadmill. In addition, cilostazol improved quality of life indices as assessed by patient questionnaire. One large randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, multicenter competitor trial demonstrated the superiority of cilostazol over pentoxifylline, the only other drug approved for IC. Cilostazol has been generally well-tolerated, with the most common adverse events being headache, diarrhea, abnormal stools and dizziness. Studies involving off-label use of cilostazol for prevention of coronary thrombosis/restenosis and stroke recurrence have also recently been reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11831543
The pharmacokinetics of lovastatin and its active metabolite lovastatin acid was evaluated in 9 healthy subjects in a three-period crossover study following a single oral dose of lovastatin extended-release (ER) tablets and lovastatin immediate-release (IR) tablets. Participants were dosed with lovastatin IR 40 mg tablets following a standard breakfast, lovastatin ER 40 mg tablets following a standard breakfast, and lovastatin ER 40 mg tablets underfasting conditions. Serial plasma samples were collected for up to 48 hours postdose and assayed for lovastatin and lovastatin acid using a liquid chromatography/mass spectroscopy/mass spectroscopy method. Lovastatin ER tablets, unlike lovastatin IR tablets, exhibited delayed- and extended-release characteristics. The relative bioavailability, in terms of area under the curve values, of lovastatin (156%) and lovastatin acid (124%) was greater from lovastatin ER tablets as compared with lovastatin IR tablets when given with breakfast. An even greater increase in the bioavailability of lovastatin (261%) and lovastatin acid (231%) was observed when the lovastatin ER tablets were administered under fasting conditions. Thus, greater gastrointestinal tract drug absorption of lovastatin from lovastatin ER tablets was demonstrated. Ingestion of a standard breakfast prior to administration of lovastatin ER tablets decreased absorption of lovastatin by approximately 40%, relative to lovastatin ER tablets under fasting conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11831546
The authors assessed the mutual influence of the immunosuppressant everolimus (Certican) and the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors atorvastatin and pravastatin when coadministered based on pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic measures. In this randomized, open-label, three-way crossover study, 24 healthy men received three single-dose oral treatments: 2 mg everolimus, 20 mg atorvastatin (n = 12) or 20 mg pravastatin (n = 12), and the respective statin coadministered with everolimus. Consecutive treatments were separated by a 14-day washout. The pharmacokinetics of all three drugs and total HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors were measured. Everolimus Cmax was reduced by 9% and 10% with atorvastatin and pravastatin coadministration; the corresponding decreases in everolimus AUC were 5% and 6%, respectively. Everolimus coadministration increased the Cmax of atorvastatin by 11% but had no influence on atorvastatin AUC. Coadministration of everolimus with pravastatin was associated with a 10% decrease in pravastatin Cmax and a 5% decrease in the AUC. The elimination half-lives of the two statins were unaffected by everolimus. Changes in total HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in plasma exhibited generally similar patterns as for the parent statin exposures. Single-dose administrations of everolimus with either atorvastatin or pravastatin did not influence the pharmacokinetics of everolimus, atorvastatin, pravastatin, or total HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in plasma to a clinically relevant extent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11831837
The Heart Protection Study (HPS), with over 20,500 subjects, is the largest trial of statin therapy ever conducted. It provides important and definitive new information on women, the elderly, diabetics, and people with low baseline cholesterol pre-treatment and those with prior occlusive non-coronary vascular disease. It is a prospective double blind randomised controlled trial with a 2 x 2 factorial design investigating prolonged use (>5 years) of simvastatin 40 mg and a cocktail of antioxidant vitamins (650 mg vitamin E, 250 mg vitamin C and 20 mg beta-carotene). The HPS specifically included patients with high risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) but characteristics that excluded them from participation in previous statin trials. Simvastatin 40 mg treatment showed benefit across all patient groups regardless of age, gender or baseline cholesterol value and proved safe and well tolerated. Results show a 12% reduction in total mortality, a 17% reduction in vascular mortality, a 24% reduction in CHD events, a 27% reduction in all strokes and a 16% reduction in non-coronary revascularisations. Among high-risk patients in this western population (with a minimum total cholesterol [TC] > or = 3.5 mmol/l at entry) there appears to be no threshold cholesterol value below which statin therapy is not associated with benefit; even among those with pre-treatment cholesterol levels below current national recommended targets. Over the 5.5 year study period patients and their doctors were encouraged to add an active non-study statin to the study regimen if they wished to do so. Thus the trial eventually had only two-thirds complying with the original intention-to-treat design. Nevertheless, results were highly significant for the study statin--simvastatin 40 mg once daily. Preliminary results of the HPS are negative for the antioxidant vitamin cocktail but provide reassurance that vitamins do no harm.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11833826
Because lovastatin is efficiently extracted by the liver and because its administration in divided doses is associated with increased efficacy, an extended-release (ER) formulation may have the potential for a dose-sparing advantage relative to the immediate-release (IR) formulation in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11834769
Aspirin and statins are the two drugs most commonly indicated for secondary prevention of atherosclerotic disease in the UK. Statin treatment, which is more expensive, is under-prescribed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11834772
Diabetic nephropathy is the most common cause of end-stage renal failure in patients starting dialysis in the developed world. In clinical trials, interventions, particularly blood pressure control, have achieved major reductions in the rate of decline in renal function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11835043
Policosanol is a mixture of higher primary aliphatic alcohols isolated from sugar cane wax, whose main component is octacosanol. The mixture has been shown to lower cholesterol in animal models, healthy volunteers, and patients with type II hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11835933
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11835951
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are well established as first-line therapy for patients with left ventricular dysfunction, diabetic patients with hypertension or renal disease, and patients recovering from myocardial infarction. Angiotensin II and bradykinin regulate cellular proliferation, inflammation, and endothelial function, thus playing an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. A large body of experimental evidence reporting that ACE inhibitors limit these effects has formed the rationale for major clinical trials of these drugs in the management of atherosclerotic vascular disease. The first trial to be completed demonstrated that ACE inhibition improves the prognosis of patients who have, or are at risk of, atherosclerotic vascular disease, independent of its effects on left ventricular function and hypertension. Expanding the indications for ACE inhibitors is now evidence driven, although the choice of agent for these new indications remains to be determined by further research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11835959
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11836262
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11836286
Endothelial dysfunction is frequently found in diabetic subjects. This study was performed to investigate whether atorvastatin therapy was able to reverse endothelial dysfunction in type 2 diabetes and, if so, whether the effect was due to its antiinflammatory action. Eighty patients (baseline low density lipoprotein, 4.37 +/- 0.71 mmol/liter) were randomized to atorvastatin (10 mg daily for 3 months, followed by 20 mg daily for 3 months) or placebo in a double blind study. Endothelial function was assessed by high resolution vascular ultrasound, and high sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP) was assessed by immunoturbidimetric assay. Diabetic patients had higher CRP (P < 0.01) than matched nondiabetic controls, and both endothelium-dependent and independent vasodilation were impaired (P < 0.01). Atorvastatin (10 and 20 mg) lowered plasma cholesterol by 32.9% and 38.0%, triglyceride by 15.4% and 23.1%, and low density lipoprotein by 43.4% and 50.1%, respectively. At 6 months, plasma CRP decreased in the atorvastatin group compared with baseline (P < 0.05). Endothelium-dependent vasodilation improved in the atorvastatin group compared with the placebo group (P < 0.05). The percent change in endothelium-dependent vasodilation at 6 months correlated with the percent change in CRP (r = -0.44; P < 0.05), but not with changes in plasma lipids. In conclusion, treatment with atorvastatin in type 2 diabetes led to a significant improvement in endothelium-dependent vasodilation, which might be partly related to its anti-inflammatory effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11839623
Long-term administration of statin therapy has been shown to reduce major coronary events and cardiac mortality within randomized clinical trials. In addition to lowering lipids, statins favorably affect platelet adhesion, thrombosis, endothelial function, inflammation, and plaque stability, which may potentially improve outcome after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Therefore, we hypothesized that statin therapy has an early beneficial effect among patients undergoing PCI.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11840884
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is still the single major cause of death in our community despite the dramatic decline in prevalence over the past 20 years or so. The first presentation of CHD in up to 50% of patients is one of the acute coronary syndromes, either acute myocardial infarction or unstable angina. Ninety percent of patients survive the acute episode and remain at high risk of further coronary events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11840912
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11843691
Previous studies have shown that patients with early onset of Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia have higher levels of circulating brain-derived 24S-hydroxycholesterol (cerebrosterol). Two recent epidemiological studies indicated that treatment with inhibitors of cholesterol synthesis (statins) reduces the incidence of Alzheimer disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11843693
Recent reports suggest a possibly protective effect for statins in patients with Alzheimer disease. This association could be due to indication bias, i.e., people who elect to take lipid-lowering agents (LLAs) may be healthier than those who do not, so that it may be these other health factors that explain their lower risk of dementia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11844650
To investigate whether there is any common link between estrogen, statins, and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), which have similar actions and benefits.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11845103
Little is known regarding the cost of cardiovascular risk factor prevention in France. In this study, we assessed the cost of antihypertensive and hypolipidaemic drug treatment in middle-aged French men without history of coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11845111
Women frequently chose alternatives to hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for treatment of menopause even though medical indications for estrogens may be present. Prior breast cancer or fear of breast cancer is a major consideration. This review of alternatives to estrogen discusses the evidence linking breast cancer to HRTs and compares potential risks and benefits of HRT to nonHRT alternatives for relief of vasomotor symptoms, vaginal atrophy, neurocognitive changes and prevention of heart disease and osteoporosis. Practical guidelines are suggested for use of alternatives for each problem.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11847951
To determine the number of cases of statin-associated rhabdomyolysis reported to the Food and Drug Administration for 6 statins and to profile the cases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11849201
To evaluate the association between current statin use and the risk of idiopathic venous thromboembolism (VTE).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11849647
Treating only the specific section of the vascular bed that is diseased appears to make sense. Giving drugs systematically to treat perhaps only a few centimetres of affected artery carries with it the risk of systemic side effects and reduced efficacy consequent on low concentrations of agent at the site of the problem. There has thus been great interest since the early 1990s in local drug delivery. Initial targets were the thrombotic response to plaque disruption but the problems arising from the incidental damage inflicted by devices used in interventional cardiology and the pathological consequences of this, namely smooth muscle cell initiated intimal hyperplasia, soon became the focus of pre-clinical studies. Problems to be overcome were the low efficiency of delivery of drugs and the low retention rates. Solutions to these problems included the development of strategies to target drugs, through the use of antibodies directed at antigens newly released at the site of damage. As it became clear that stents were becoming central to the attainment of a better clinical response to intervention by their inherent physical properties, it also became obvious that stents could be used to deliver agents. Issues such as which stent, how to load the drug onto the stent and what drug to use to inhibit the unwanted pathobiological response are ongoing issues.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11849659
The efficacy of the inhibitors of HMG CoA reductase shows considerable interindividual variation and intense research has focused in the recent years to identify the genetic loci and environmental factors responsible for this variability. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial with simvastatin, an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, was conducted in 63 adolescents (47 treated versus 17 controls) with heterozygous FH. The patients were grouped according to known low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene mutation class. After 6 weeks of treatment with 20 mg/d of simvastatin, the mean reduction in plasma LDL-cholesterol in patients with a receptor-negative mutation (n=33) was 39% whereas, in the receptor-defective mutation group (n=14), it was 31% (P=0.01). Multiple regression analyses showed that there was a significant association between the apo E polymorphism and LDL-cholesterol response to simvastatin only among heterozygotes for a receptor-negative mutation. In subjects carrying a receptor-defective mutation, however, we observed that 51% of the variability in LDL-cholesterol response was explained by variations in the dosage of simvastatin expressed in mg/kg/day (P=0.0028). There was no significant association between LDL-cholesterol response and the dosage of simvastatin among heterozygotes for a receptor-negative mutation. The results of the present study have shown that the contribution of apo E polymorphism and the dosage of simvastatin to the LDL-cholesterol responsiveness is influenced by the nature of the LDL receptor gene mutation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11849660
This prospective randomized trial was designed to elucidate clinically the effect of fluvastatin on inhibiting oxidation of the low density lipoprotein (LDL) and improving the vascular endothelial function as well as its lipid-lowering effects, in comparison with pravastatin. Of 64 consecutive dyslipidemic patients, 40 patients, whose level of total cholesterol or LDL-cholesterol maintained the criteria of the hypercholesterolemia in spite of 12-week dietary therapy, were randomly assigned to receive either fluvastatin (n=20) or pravastatin (n=20). We assessed the titer of antibody against oxidized LDL (anti-Ox-LDL) as a biomarker for LDL-oxidation, and the forearm blood flow response during reactive hyperemia by venous occlusion plethysmography, which indicates the endothelium-dependent vasodilator capacity. After the 16-week lipid-lowering therapy, the anti-Ox-LDL titer significantly decreased in the fluvastatin group (P<0.01) but did not change in the pravastatin group. The percent increase in the forearm blood flow at the peak reactive hyperemia from the baseline value (%RH) significantly increased in the fluvastatin group (P<0.001) but did not change in the pravastatin group. The ratio of the %RH after the therapy over the baseline value negatively correlated with that of the anti-Ox-LDL titer (R=0.73, P<0.001) in all patients. Fluvastatin may serve as an ideal drug for reducing the risk of atherosclerosis, not only by its cholesterol-lowering effect but also by its unique effects of inhibiting LDL oxidation and improving the vascular endothelial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11849859
This study investigated the effect of reducing serum lipids on carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT) in asymptomatic patients with hypercholesterolemia from Fukuoka, Japan.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11851538
The relationship between sildenafil citrate use and reported adverse cardiovascular events in men with coronary artery disease (CAD) is unclear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11851868
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of cerivastatin and fenofibrate on endothelium dependent and independent arterial dilation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11852667
The drugs in the group of the "statins" lower blood lipids, especially cholesterol, thereby reducing a risk factor for, and diminishing the incidence of, clinically important cerebrocardiovascular events. Cardiovascular events and stroke are significant causes of morbidity and mortality in China and the United States. Statins reduce platelet-mediated thrombus formation and atherosclerotic progression through mechanisms not completely elucidated. While important, the lipid-lowering action of statins does not completely explain their multifaceted benefits. Nonlipid related mechanisms are essential to such effects. The authors explore these nonlipid related mechanisms of action of pravastatin that may translate into clinically relevant benefits. This study was conducted in Guangzhou, China. Twenty-one hypercholesterolemic patients were treated with pravastatin--10-20 mg/day for 12 weeks. Blood for tests was obtained at baseline and after 8 and 12 weeks of pravastatin therapy. After 8- and 12-weeks of therapy, significant decreases were observed in the following: (1) total blood cholesterol and low density lipoprotein-C (P < 0.01), (2) ADP-induced maximum platelet aggregation (P < 0.01), (3) TXB2 or thromboxane B2 in platelets (P < 0.01), and (4) expression of GMP-140 or granule membrane protein-140 (P < 0.01). The therapeutic effects of the drug did not vary significantly with length of therapy. Pravastatin induces inhibition of platelet aggregation and expression of TXB2 and GMP-140, the likely causes of thrombus formation, atherosclerotic progression, and subsequently cardiovascular events. These potential beneficial events occur within 8 weeks of pravastatin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11854133
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11856903
An intense debate has developed as to the risk-benefit ratio of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) following the withdrawal of cerivastatin. The development of rhabdomyolysis in cerivastatin-treated patients should have surprised few since myotoxicity is an accepted class effect of statins. What has sprung from the cerivastatin experience though is a concern for other members of this class. Such misgivings, although understandable, are ill advised. Without question, differences exist in the risk of rhabdomyolysis occurrence amongst the various statins. In this regard, pravastatin and fluvastatin are least likely to produce rhabdomyolysis, which, in part, relates to the fact they are not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 3A4 pathway. When muscle damage occurs with statins it is most often the result of a drug-drug interaction rather than a specific adverse response to statin monotherapy. Such drug-drug interactions increase plasma concentrations of a statin and thereby increase the risk of myotoxicity. A growing consensus exists which supports an expanded use of statins in a range of patient groups including the renal failure patient. Polypharmacy and altered drug metabolism increase the risk of myotoxicity, albeit to an ill-defined degree, in this population. Many factors should enter into the choice of a statin in the multiply medicated renal failure patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11856905
Premature atherosclerosis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in end-stage renal disease patients. Dyslipidemia and increased oxidative stress contribute to premature atherogenesis in these patients. The dyslipidemia of end-stage renal disease consists of both quantitative and qualitative abnormalities in serum lipoproteins. Qualitative changes include hypertriglyceridemia (increased remnant lipoproteins), low high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, and increased lipoprotein (a). In addition to quantitative changes, lipoproteins in end-stage renal disease undergo compositional and qualitative changes that make them pro-atherogenic, such as various modifications of apolipoprotein B, including oxidation, and modification by advanced glycation end-products. The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors and low-dose fibrates could be effective therapies for lipid disorders. The best evidence for increased oxidative stress in end-stage renal disease is the demonstration of increased plasma F2-isoprostanes. Confirmation of the positive findings with high-dose alpha-tocopherol in the Secondary Prevention with Antioxidants of Cardiovascular Disease in End-stage Renal Disease Study is urgently needed. Clinical trials with statins and other drugs that improve dyslipidemia also need to be undertaken. These therapies could clearly lead to a reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11860367
In this article we review the current status of chemotherapeutic approaches for the specific treatment of Chagas disease or American Trypanosomiasis, as well as new rational approaches being developed as a consequence on the increased understanding of the biochemistry and physiology of its causative agent, the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. Currently available drugs (nitrofurans and nitroimidazoles), developed empirically over three decades ago, are unsatisfactory due to frequent toxic side effects and limited efficacy, particularly in the prevalent chronic form of the disease. Furthermore, studies of their mechanism of action have shown that their antiparasitic activity is inextricably linked to mammalian host toxicity. Recent advances in this field include the demonstration that new triazole derivatives, with selective inhibitory activity on the parasite's de novo sterol biosynthesis and special pharmacokinetic properties, can induce radical parasitological cure of both acute and chronic Chagas experimental disease. These compounds are active against nitrofuran- and nitroimidazole-resistant T.cruzi strains and maintain their activity even if the hosts are immunosuppressed and are thus logical candidates for clinical trials with Chagas disease patients. Inhibitors of cruzipain, a cathepsin L-like protease responsible for the major proteolytic activity in all stages of the life cycle of the parasite, can selectively block the proliferation of T.cruzi, both in vitro and in vivo and have curative activity in murine models of acute Chagas disease; a significant effort is being devoted to their development as antiparasitic drugs. Alkyl-lysophospholipids, which selectively block phosphatidyl-choline biosynthesis in T.cruzi, are promising antiparasitic agents with good oral activity and low toxicity. Other biochemical pathways have been identified as potential chemotherapeutic targets, including hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase and the enzymes involved in the synthesis and metabolism of trypanothione and inorganic pyrophosphate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11861438
Current clinical guidelines require that five indices (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and the total/HDL cholesterol ratio) be measured or calculated to assess the lipid-related risk of vascular disease. All five are also targets of therapy and therefore all must be measured initially and at follow-up. Considerable evidence indicates that apolipoprotein B (apo B) is a better index of reaching or not reaching treatment targets than total or LDL cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11863310
Recent clinical studies have demonstrated that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors are effective in the prevention of cardiovascular events and regression of atherosclerotic lesions evaluated by angiography. In this study, the authors investigated how lipid-lowering therapy effects on the progression of aortic atherosclerosis by using plain and enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the lower abdominal aorta. Twenty-nine hyperlipidemic patients (mean age 61.4 +/- 7.2 yr) were enrolled in a prospective open-labeled study. All patients underwent baseline CT scanning of abdominal aorta, screening for serum lipid profile and coagulation-fibrinolysis measurement, then treatment with simvastatin was begun. After 2 years, a follow-up CT scan was done and atherosclerotic lesions were compared between baseline and on-treatment scan. In spite of significant improvement of lipid and fibrinolytic profiles by simvastatin administration, mean aortic wall thickening volume (AWV) was increased during observation period. When patients were divided into subgroups by the levels of on-treatment LDL cholesterol (LDL-C), development rate of AWV was more potently suppressed in patients whose on-treatment LDL-C were below 125 mg/dL (median LDL-C). We could not find any associations of coagulation-fibrinolysis measurements with atherosclerotic lesions. In regard to aortic calcification volume (ACV), low levels of total and HDL cholesterol and higher age were associated with aortic calcification at baseline. These results suggest that aggressive treatment with LDL-C below 125 mg/dL may suppress the progression of wall thickening and factors that promote arterial calcifications and those for wall thickening may be different.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11865968
The pharmacokinetics (PK) and safety of fluvastatin, a hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, were assessed in subjects with renal impairment and nephrotic syndrome. In a single-center, open-label, parallel-group study, a single dose of fluvastatin 40 mg was administered to subjects (8 per group, n = 48) with nephrotic syndrome (group II), healthy subjects (group I), and subjects with various degrees of renal impairment (groups III to VI). Subjects undergoing hemodialysis received two doses, one 2 days before and one just prior to hemodialysis. Blood samples to determine the PK parameters of fluvastatin were collected from 0 to 12 hours after drug intake. Noncompartmental PK evaluation and statistical analysis (descriptive and ANOVA) were performed. Safety was evaluated and vital signs were monitored. There was no difference in the PK parameters AUC0-infinity and Cmax of fluvastatin between healthy subjects and subjects with renal impairment. Fluvastatin was not removed from plasma by hemodialysis. In patients with nephrotic syndrome, the values for AUC0-infinity and Cmax were less than half of those obtained in the other groups; terminal half-life values, however, were comparable. Fluvastatin was well tolerated in all study participants. Only few adverse events of mild to moderate intensity were reported. There were no clinically relevant changes in laboratory parameters in the subjects with renal impairment. Renal impairment did not affect the PK of fluvastatin after a single oral dose. Exposure to fluvastatin was lower in subjects with nephrotic syndrome. Fluvastatin also was well tolerated in subjects with nephrotic syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11866679
The ketolides are a new class of macrolides specifically designed to combat respiratory tract pathogens that have acquired resistance to macrolides. The ketolides are semi-synthetic derivatives of the 14-membered macrolide erythromycin A. There are currently two ketolides in the late stages of clinical development in the US (telithromycin [HMR-364, Kelek; Aventis] and ABT-773 [Abbot Laboratories]), as well as newer compounds in earlier stages of testing. Ketolides have a mechanism of action very similar to that of erythromycin A. They potently inhibit protein synthesis by interacting close to the peptidyl transferase site of the bacterial 50S ribosomal subunit. Ketolides bind to ribosomes with higher affinity than macrolides. The ketolides exhibit good activity against Gram-positive and some Gram-negative aerobes and have are active against macrolide-resistant Streptococcus species, including most mef A and erm B strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae. Ketolides have pharmacokinetics which allow once-daily dosing and extensive tissue distribution with very high uptake into respiratory tissues and fluids relative to serum. Evidence suggests the ketolides are primarily metabolised by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme system in the liver and that elimination is a combination of biliary, hepatic and urinary excretion. Clinical trial data are only available for telithromycin and have focused on respiratory tract infections (RTIs) including community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB), sinusitis and streptococcal pharyngitis. Bacteriological and clinical cure rates have been similar to comparators. Ketolides have similar safety profiles to the newer macrolides. In summary, early clinical trials support the clinical efficacy of the ketolides in common RTIs, including activity against macrolide-resistant pathogens.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11867043
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11867924
Drugs that are efficacious have usually also undesired side effects. When applying for marketing authorization of a drug, demonstration of a positive risk/benefit ratio is a prerequisite for approval by the competent authorities. Once on the market, risk/benefit evaluation has to be continued in order to determine whether the risk/benefit ratio is still positive or not. The German Drug Law, by means of article 5, poses this responsibility on the pharmaceutical entrepreneur. Specific instructions on how to perform the risk/benefit evaluation can be derived from article 5, and a decision matrix was developed to support taking action if the risk/benefit ratio has changed. Historical and current examples are presented to illustrate changes of the risk/benefit ratio, problems associated with detecting risk signals, and the resulting regulatory actions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11868059
A low level of high-density lipoprotein (HDLC) is a proven risk factor for coronary artery disease. Niacin raises HDLC levels, but it is infrequently used because of its side effect profile. Niacin's side effects are dose related. This study tests the hypothesis that very low-dose niacin, in conjunction with long-term statin therapy, will improve the lipid profile by significantly raising the level of HDLC, with fewer side effects than traditional doses of niacin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11868800
To investigate the influence of concomitant administration of roxithromycin on the plasma pharmacokinetics of lovastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11871921
Recent data suggest that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) decrease fracture risk and increase bone mineral density (BMD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11872916
It is estimated that about half of cardiovascular disease risk is explained by conventional risk factors. The realization that atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disease has led to a search for new stroke and cardiovascular disease risk factors and treatments. As such, the vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque has become the main focus for new medical strategies for plaque stabilization and stroke prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11872991
Emerging data implicate inflammation as integral to atherosclerosis and its complications. From a clinical perspective, the inflammatory biomarker C-reactive protein has demonstrated consistent predictive value in the detection of individuals at high risk for cardiovascular disease. Therapy with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) reduces C-reactive protein as well as low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, thus providing a potential additional mechanism for the reduction in cardiovascular events associated with the use of these agents. Evidence from the Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study suggests that statin therapy may be effective in reducing incident coronary events among those with elevated levels of C-reactive protein but normal levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. These data, along with accumulating laboratory data, support a potential anti-inflammatory benefit of statins. Large-scale, randomized trials in the primary prevention of acute coronary events among individuals without overt hyperlipidemia but with evidence of elevated C-reactive protein are now needed to directly test this hypothesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11873000
Lipid lowering therapy is used increasingly in persons with HIV infection in the absence of safety data or information on drug interactions with antiretroviral agents. The primary objectives of this study were to examine the effects of ritonavir (RTV) plus saquinavir soft-gel (SQVsgc) capsules on the pharmacokinetics of pravastatin, simvastatin, and atorvastatin, and the effect of pravastatin on the pharmacokinetics of nelfinavir (NFV) in order to determine clinically important drug-drug interactions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11873095
Rosuvastatin (Crestor), a new, highly efficacious statin, has demonstrated dose-dependent low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reductions of up to 65% in a dose-ranging programme with doses of 1 to 80 mg.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11874384
Genetics provides significant opportunities to maximize the safety and efficacy of medicines. Over the next 3--5 years, it may be possible to develop tools that use selective information from patients' DNA to enable healthcare professionals to predict more accurately those patients at risk of serious adverse events to some medicines currently available. This is likely to be followed, over the next 5--10 years, by the application of the technology to predict more accurately if individual patients will obtain a therapeutic benefit from a particular medicine. The ability to accurately predict patient response will inevitably change the way medicines are developed, evaluated, and prescribed. Advances in single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) map technology are likely to drive this innovation. Abbreviated SNP profiles will provide the means to define medicine response tests, thereby allowing clinicians to select the medicine to which the patient is likely to gain the greatest benefit and least risk. This will help to maximize efficacy and reduce the incidence of drug-related adverse events. It may be possible to identify SNP profiles during larger Phase II clinical trials which predict efficacy, and use these to form the basis of Phase III entry criteria. As a result, Phase III trials may be streamlined for many medicines making them smaller, more efficient, and more focused. In addition it may be possible to incorporate pharmacogenetics into postmarketing surveillance strategies to provide a means to identify SNPs which predict uncommon serious adverse drug reactions, and so refine the initial medicine response test. The ability to develop drugs with a predictable response will allow clinicians to provide targeted treatment for patients, with greater confidence of safety and efficacy. Patients therefore will receive more efficacious, timely, and well-tolerated medicines. The challenge for those involved in drug development is to model and evaluate the application of pharmacogenetics so that steps can be taken to realize this potential.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11875296
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11875327
The North American Menopause Society (NAMS) established a goal to create an evidence-based position statement regarding the management of postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11875588
A 76-year-old woman strictly defined as having cardiac syndrome X underwent cardiac scintigraphies. A reversible perfusion abnormality was identified by (201)thallium in the inferior segment of the left ventricle. (123)iodine meta-iodo-benzyl-guanigine uptake showed extremely diminished uptake in the inferior segment of the myocardium. (123)iodine labelled beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid myocardial single photon emission computed tomography showed decreased uptake of the inferior segment in the early image, whereas the delayed images revealed significant fill-in of the tracer in the inferior segment of the myocardium. These findings suggest that coronary microvascular dysfunction causes regional myocardial ischemia, resulting in metabolic and sympathetic abnormality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11879274
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11879671
The Seventh World Congress for Microcirculation, organized by the Australian and New Zealand Microcirculation Society, was held on 19-22 August 2001 in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11885403
The Therapy Consultation section provides brief advice, in question-and-answer format, on how to handle specific drug-therapy problems. Readers are invited to submit questions, which will be referred to a consultant for an answer. The problems should not be highly specialized or unusual, nor should they be mundane. Questions are answered briefly, largely on the basis of judgment and personal experience of the consultant, although selected references may be cited to substantiate the consultant's advice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11886300
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11887555
Until recently the therapeutic approach in patients with acute coronary syndrome without ST-segment elevation focused on medical stabilization. Usually cardiac catheterization and revascularisation were performed later only if the stabilized patient had provoked ischemia. Since angioplasty became safer with the introduction of coronary stents, and since new potent antithrombotic agents (i.e. tienopyridines or glycoprotein-receptorIIb/IIIa-antagonists) have been developed, early angioplasty has become much more effective. Moreover major progress has been made in risk-stratification, which allow an individual therapeutic strategy for each patient according to his risk-status. We discuss the most important randomised clinical trials comparing a conservative versus an invasive strategy and introduce a new algorithm for risk-stratification und therapy in acute coronary syndromes without ST-elevation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11887556
Treatment of acute coronary syndrome is under rapid progress. Nevertheless, the early complication rate remains high. Standard antithrombotic treatment is Aspirin 100 mg/d. Patients with elevated risk should be treated with Aspirin and Clopidogrel if primary invasive strategy ist not intended. Independent of the cholesterol level, statins should be given in the early phase of acute coronary syndrome. Dose adaptation is recommended after three months corresponding to the national guidelines. Mainly in diabetes mellitus, additional treatment with an ACE inhibitor lowers the overall cardiovascular risk also in patients without arterial hypertension or congestive heart failure. Six months after the acute event, risk stratification should be adapted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11888350
Randomised clinical trials offer a unique opportunity for capturing safety information under a controlled setting that minimises biases in the comparison of different therapeutic options. Nevertheless, empirical evidence across diverse medical fields suggests that the reporting of safety information in clinical trials is largely neglected and receives less attention compared with efficacy outcomes. An analysis of 192 randomised trials has shown that reasons for withdrawals due to toxicity were specified per study arm in only 46% of the trial reports. Adequate reporting of clinical adverse effects and laboratory-determined toxicity occurred in only 39 and 29% of the trials, respectively, even with lenient definitions of what constitutes adequate reporting. The use of standardised scales for adverse effects is a prerequisite for improved reporting on safety in randomised trials. Safety data need to be collected and analysed in a systematic fashion and active surveillance for toxicity during the conduct of a randomised trial is preferable to passive surveillance. Standardised reporting of safety data does not necessarily require extensive space to accomplish. It is essential to provide numerical data per study arm on each type of adverse effect along with a categorisation of the severity of the adverse effects with an emphasis on severe and life-threatening reactions. The severity grading must be referred to well-known standardised scales and new scales need to be carefully defined. Information on withdrawals due to toxicity is also important to report, along with the specific reasons leading to discontinuation. Tabulation of information may be helpful and rare or not previously reported adverse effects should be described in detail. The availability of newer options such as electronic publication, publication of raw databases, large database research, meta-analytic approaches, and prospective registration of clinical trials and of their databases may further improve the safety insights we can gain from randomised clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11888360
Over the last decade, there has been a proliferation in the number of economic evaluations of pharmaceuticals to meet the growing demand for information about the economic benefits of healthcare technologies. The majority of these studies have been commissioned by pharmaceutical companies for the purposes of drawing attention to the resource and quality-of-life aspects of new or existing products. Such information has become important in overcoming a new obstacle, namely the demonstration of cost effectiveness (the so-called 'fourth hurdle'), in addition to the three well-established criteria of quality, tolerability and efficacy. To ensure the maintenance of standards, guidance for economic evaluations has emerged lately in the form of guidelines, regulations, principles, policies and positions. Drummond outlined three purposes of these guidelines, as follows: as a requirement prior to reimbursement, as statements of methodological standards, and as a statement of ethical standards. Such guidelines are designed to assist both the economic analyst and the decision-maker. In laying out the state of the art regarding the methodology of economic evaluation, guidelines assist the analyst in performing high-quality, scientifically valid studies, and assist the decision-maker in properly interpreting and assessing their quality. In response to these growing requirements for cost-effectiveness data globally, it has become increasingly common for economic evaluations to be conducted on an international scale. However, the recommendations in pharmacoeconomics guidelines regarding the manner in which these multinational economic evaluations should be designed, analysed and presented are too limited to be of any real value. This article examines the various issues that must be taken into consideration when conducting multinational studies, and provides a review of the techniques and approaches that have been suggested to date. It concludes with recommendations for potential inclusion in future sets of pharmacoeconomic guidelines.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11888512
Hydroxy-methyl-glutaryl co-enzyme A reductase inhibitors (HMG CoA RIs) markedly improve the lipid profile of patients with hypercholesterolemia, but the magnitude and time course of the effect of these drugs on other risk factors for atherosclerosis are not well defined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11888983
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11889008
The Long-Term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischemic Disease (LIPID) trial showed that pravastatin significantly reduced mortality and coronary heart disease (CHD) events in 9014 patients with known CHD and total cholesterol 4.0 to 7.0 mmol/L at baseline. Secondary objectives included assessment of CHD event reduction according to lipid levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11890163
To evaluate the long-term effect of changes in body composition induced by weight loss on insulin sensitivity (SI), non-insulin mediated glucose disposal, glucose effectiveness (SG)and beta-cell function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11890840
Few strategies are available for the prevention of cognitive impairment in elderly persons. Serum lipoprotein levels may be important predictors of cognitive function, and drugs that lower cholesterol may be effective for the prevention of cognitive impairment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11892686
Intermittent claudication (IC) comprises the most common presenting symptoms of peripheral arterial disease (PAD), which itself is a manifestation of systemic atherosclerosis. Typical symptoms of IC are aching pain, numbness, and fatigue in the lower extremities. Symptoms are induced by walking or exercise and usually resolve with rest. The cornerstone of treating IC is risk-factor reduction and a supervised exercise regimen. Pharmacotherapy specifically indicated for the treatment of IC includes a new drug, cilostazol, and the traditional drug, pentoxifylline. Cilostazol also has antiplatelet, antithrombotic, and vasodilatory activity, as well as a positive effect on serum lipids. Eight multicenter clinical trials, seven in the U.S. and one in the U.K., used objective and subjective clinical endpoints to assess the treatment efficacy of cilostazol. Objective endpoints included maximal and pain-free walking distance (MWD and PFWD, respectively), the ankle-brachial index, peripheral hemodynamic measurements, and serum lipid levels. Subjective endpoints, assessed by patient questionnaires, included perceived functional status and health-related quality of life. Cilostazol treatment showed statistically significant increases in MWD and PFWD within 4 weeks, as well as improvements in physical functional status at 24 weeks, compared with placebo and pentoxifylline. Increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and decreases in plasma triglycerides were also noted. Subjective assessments appeared to match objective parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11892913
A variety of pharmacological strategies are being subjected to clinical trial to inhibit neovascularization of solid tumors. Increased angiogenesis is also a key component of synovitis and bone modeling in arthritis. Molecular mechanisms and pathological consequences of blood vessel growth in arthritis are now being elucidated. Preclinical studies of angiogenesis inhibitors in animal models of inflammatory arthritis support the hypothesis that inhibition of neovascularization may reduce inflammation and joint damage. Clinical data are consistent with these models being predictive of efficacy in rheumatoid arthritis. However, controlled studies of specific anti-angiogenic agents in human arthritis remain limited. Further studies are required to demonstrate that pharmacological agents can effectively inhibit articular angiogenesis, and ameliorate inflammation and subsequent joint damage. Potential toxicity of angiogenesis inhibitors in reproduction, growth and development and wound repair may be circumvented by short-term or local application, or by targeting molecular mechanisms that are specific to pathological rather than physiological angiogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11893827
Experimental studies have shown an activation of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) system as a response to endothelial injury. Recent publications have elucidated the hypothesis that the ACE gene polymorphism may influence the level of late luminal loss after coronary stent implantation. It is still unclear whether the polymorphism of the angiotensin gene is a major predictor of the extent of neointimal hyperplasia. In this multicenter study, we therefore tested the relationship between the ACE gene polymorphism and the restenosis rate after coronary stent implantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11894724
Patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) have a 2-3 times increased risk of death and in the most severe stage, critical peripheral ischaemia, the mortality rate is around 50% within 4-5. This poor survival rate is due to concomitant coronary and cerebrovascular atherosclerotic disease. Among the major risk factors for atherosclerosis are dyslipidaemia, smoking, hypertension and diabetes. Large randomised trials have shown that dyslipidaemia is easily modifiable in both patients with and without established coronary artery disease, with significant reductions in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Although none of these trials directly measured peripheral vascular status, there is every indication that conclusions submitted for patients with ischaemic heart disease can be translated to patients with peripheral vascular disease. The object of this review was therefore to divulge current evidence available supporting active treatment of dyslipidaemia in patients with peripheral vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11895049
To assess potential interactions of colesevelam hydrochloride and lovastatin in healthy volunteers when lovastatin alone was administered with dinner, both lovastatin and colesevelam were administered with dinner, and colesevelam was administered with dinner and lovastatin was administered 4 hours later with a snack.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11895060
To review the chemistry, spectrum of activity, pharmacology, clinical efficacy, and safety of telithromycin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11895826
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11897207
The efficacy and safety of atorvastatin 10 mg versus simvastatin 20 mg and atorvastatin 80 mg versus simvastatin 80 mg was determined in a 6-week, prospective, randomized, open-label, blinded end-point trial of dyslipidemic patients with and without coronary heart disease. A total of 1,732 patients with hypercholesterolemia and triglycerides < or =600 mg/dl (6.8 mmol/L) were randomized to receive either atorvastatin 10 mg (n = 650), simvastatin 20 mg (n = 650), atorvastatin 80 mg (n = 216), or simvastatin 80 mg (n = 216). The primary efficacy parameter was the change in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol from baseline to week 6. Secondary efficacy parameters included the percent change from baseline to week 6 in total cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and the percent of patients achieving their National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) LDL cholesterol goal at study end. Atorvastatin had significantly greater reductions from baseline in LDL cholesterol than simvastatin in both comparator groups: atorvastatin 10 mg (37.1%) versus simvastatin 20 mg (35.4%) (p = 0.0097), and atorvastatin 80 mg (53.4%) versus simvastatin 80 mg (46.7%) (p <0.0001). Atorvastatin 10 and 80 mg also provided significantly greater reductions in total cholesterol, triglycerides, very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B than simvastatin 20 and 80 mg, respectively (all p <0.05). All treatment groups had a significantly decreased LDL cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio from baseline (all p <0.0001). In both comparator groups a higher proportion of atorvastatin-treated patients reached their NCEP LDL cholesterol goal compared with simvastatin. All 4 study treatments were well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11897208
Combination therapy is increasingly recommended for patients with multiple lipid disorders, especially those at high risk for coronary events. We investigated the long-term safety and effectiveness of a new drug formulation containing once-daily extended-release niacin and lovastatin. A total of 814 men and women (mean age 59 years) with dyslipidemia were enrolled in a 52-week multicenter, open-label study. We used 4 escalating doses (niacin/lovastatin in milligrams): 500/10 for the first month, 1,000/20 for the second, 1,500/30 for the third, and 2,000/40 for the fourth month through week 52. Dose-dependent effects were observed for all major lipid parameters. At week 16, mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides were reduced by 47% and 41%, respectively; mean high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was increased by 30% (all p <0.001). LDL/HDL cholesterol and total/HDL cholesterol ratios were also decreased by 58% and 48%, respectively. These effects persisted through week 52, except for the mean increase in HDL cholesterol, which had increased to 41% at 1 year. Lipoprotein (a) and C-reactive protein also decreased in a dose-related manner (by 25% and 24%, respectively, on 2,000/40 mg; p <0.01 vs baseline). Treatment was generally well tolerated. The most common adverse event was flushing, which caused 10% of patients to withdraw. Other adverse events included gastrointestinal upset, pruritus, rash, and headache. Drug-induced myopathy did not occur in any patient. The incidence of elevated liver enzymes to >3 times the upper limit of normal was 0.5%. Once-daily niacin/lovastatin exhibits substantial effects on multiple lipid risk factors and represents a significant new treatment option in the management of dyslipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11897431
As the survival of patients with primary coronary events continues to increase, the number of patients presenting with coronary artery disease unsuitable to further revascularization techniques and symptoms refractory to medical therapy also continues to rise. The aims of this review were to define the population of patients with refractory angina pectoris and to present the therapeutic options currently available for this condition. Refractory angina pectoris is defined, and traditional medical therapies are discussed. Then, current therapeutic options for patients with refractory angina are extensively reviewed. A multitude of therapeutic options exist for patients with refractory angina pectoris. Small, uncontrolled studies have shown a potential benefit for additional antiplatelet and antithrombotic therapy. In randomized trials, neurostimulation has been shown to be effective in reducing angina symptoms. Enhanced external counterpulsation is a viable treatment option for select patients with refractory angina. In many randomized trials, laser revascularization has been shown to diminish angina symptoms, although no placebo-controlled studies exist to date. Gene therapy is a promising area of research in this field. Percutaneous in situ coronary venous arterialization is in its infancy, but may be able to treat many patients if proved successful. No data support the role of chelation therapy in this population. Heart transplantation remains a final option for these patients. Further research of the techniques mentioned in this review is warranted. The importance of randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trials cannot be overemphasized, as the placebo effect of these therapies is probably marked.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11897445
We sought to investigate the effects of intensive cholesterol reduction on large artery stiffness and blood pressure in normolipidemic patients with isolated systolic hypertension (ISH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11899129
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11902822
Recently, it was reported that treatment with adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) has a strong lipid-lowering effect in healthy individuals. The mechanism behind this has not been established. The aim of the present investigation was to study the effect of ACTH on the plasma lipoprotein pattern in patients treated with a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11907366
An acute and potentially life-threatening complication of hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) is acute pancreatitis (AP). Hypertriglyceridemia, usually severe, may be primary in origin or secondary to alcohol abuse, diabetes mellitus, pregnancy, and use of drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11908249
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11909575
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11909576
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11910595
Substantial improvements in lipoprotein-lipid profiles have previously been shown with both simvastatin and combined estrogen-progestin therapy in postmenopausal hypercholesterolemic women. Since little is known about the impact of the concomitant use of these therapies, the effects of concurrent hormone therapy and simvastatin in hypercholesterolemic postmenopausal women have been evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11910873
Primary prevention with drugs such as ACE inhibitors, statins and betablockers is highly effective, but due to expensiveness not cost-effective. The aim of this review article was to demonstrate whether nonpharmacological therapy with life-style factors (nonsmoking, healthy eating pattern, increased physical activity) can reduce the incidence of classic risk factors and the cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11911562
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11911755
Decompensated congestive heart failure (CHF) is the leading hospital discharge diagnosis in patients older than 65 years.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11911905
Two major trials, the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention Trial (BIP) and the Veterans Affairs High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Intervention Trial (VA-HIT) were conducted to clarify the contribution of correcting diminished high density lipoprotein (HDL) (and lowering triglyceride, TG) levels to the risk of cardiovascular events in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). In BIP, bezafibrate did not significantly reduce the risk of CHD. In contrast, in VA-HIT, gemfibrozil significantly reduced the risk of CHD (22% reduction in primary end point, P=0.006). These trials differ in several respects making direct comparisons difficult. For example, the placebo arm in VA-HIT had a greater prevalence of primary events than that in BIP (22 vs. 15%). The baseline mean LDL value in BIP was also higher compared to that in VA-HIT (148 vs. 112 mg/dl; 3.82 vs. 2.89 mmol/l). Other trials (e.g., AFCAPS and LIPID) showed that patients with LDL values similar to those in BIP benefited significantly from treatment with statins. Therefore, the BIP population may have been more effectively treated with a statin. In contrast, in VA-HIT the LDL level was close to those recommended in the USA and the UK for secondary prevention (100 and 115 mg/dl; 2.6 and 3.0 mmol/l, respectively). Guidelines emphasise that the LDL level is the main treatment target. However, BIP and VA-HIT suggest that correcting HDL and TG levels may be beneficial especially when the LDL level has reached the target value. We may have become too focused on LDL levels and the use of statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11913471
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11914249
In two large secondary prevention trials of pravastatin, risk reduction was not significant in participants who had low baseline LDL-C concentrations (that is, <125 mg/dL). We conducted exploratory analyses of participant characteristics, lipid risk factors, and risk reduction in this group.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11914253
HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors (statins) reduce cardiac event rates in patients with stable coronary heart disease. Withdrawal of chronic statin treatment during acute coronary syndromes may impair vascular function independent of lipid-lowering effects and thus increase cardiac event rate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11916536
Coronary artery disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States and across the world. The economic impact of coronary artery disease is staggering and on the rise. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is widely used to treat severe, symptomatic coronary stenosis. The Achilles heel of angioplasty is restenosis of those treated arteries. As a result, numerous therapies, including mechanical and pharmacological approaches, to prevent restenosis have been studied. A greater understanding of the pathophysiology of restenosis has enhanced the success of these therapeutic approaches. To date, the most important and successful approach to limit restenosis has been the use of coronary stents. Stents have reduced the rate of restenosis from approximately 50% down to 20-30%. However, in-stent restenosis presents a new and an even more challenging dilemma. The success of adjunctive drug therapy has been promising, but, as of yet, very limited. Antithrombotic agents have reduced acute thrombosis and many of the acute complications of angioplasty. New approaches and therapies are very encouraging, and provide great hope in the treatment of restenosis. Brachytherapy has shown success in the treatment of in-stent restenosis, and recently has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for this indication. Drug-eluting stents using antiproliferative drugs are the most exciting new advance in preventing restenosis, currently in Phase III trials. Gene therapy, targeted drug delivery, and newer antithrombotic agents are also under investigation. We will review the pathophysiology of restenosis, animal models, pharmacological therapies, and mechanical approaches for the treatment of restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11918519
To review the current clinical data describing the effects of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors in bone formation and reduction of fracture incidence and their potential use for osteoporosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11918622
There are few data on the role of lipid lowering in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) in diabetic patients. This paper describes the design of a collaborative clinical trial between Diabetes UK, the NHS Research and Development Directorate and Pfizer UK, that addresses this question.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11918754
Individuals with chronic renal disease are at high risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and therefore the management of dyslipidemia is particularly important in this patient population. This double-blind randomized study investigated the efficacy and safety of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, atorvastatin, in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients with dyslipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11919129
To characterize potential differences in glycemic control, plasma lipid level, and weight in a cohort of patients previously treated with troglitazone (TROG) who were switched to either pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11926698
Many individuals throughout Europe have risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) and are non-compliant with recommended treatments, despite guidelines for the reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and the prevention of CHD. Significant numbers who should receive pharmacotherapy for hypercholesterolaemia do not, and one-third of treated patients do not achieve recommended target LDL-C levels. Optimum doses of statins, which have demonstrated undisputed efficacy in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia in clinical trials, are seldom used; the inconvenience of dosage adjustments and safety concerns, particularly myalgia, may constitute obstacles to their optimal use for LDL-C reduction in clinical practice. Ezetimibe is the first selective cholesterol absorption inhibitor that has demonstrated clinical benefits when used as either monotherapy or in combination with other lipid-modifying agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11926875
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11926876
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11927515
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy reduces cardiovascular risk, mechanisms of which may include diminished arterial inflammation, as suggested by reduction in levels of C-reactive protein (CRP). Because oral estrogens increase CRP in postmenopausal women, with potential inflammatory and thrombotic consequences that could compromise any benefit to cardiovascular risk, we determined whether the coadministration of a statin might modify the estrogenic effect on CRP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11927522
Coronary artery disease, an inflammatory disease, may be caused by infection. We investigated whether the antibiotic clarithromycin would reduce morbidity and mortality in patients with acute non-Q-wave coronary syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11927795
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11932263
There is accumulating evidence that statins have beneficial effects that are independent of their classical actions on lipoproteins. These effects include reductions in inflammation in the vasculature, kidney, and bone. Potential beneficial effects of these agents include enhancement of nitric oxide production in vasculature and the kidney. These agents appear to reduce bone fractures and may improve insulin sensitivity and reduce the likelihood of persons progressing from impaired glucose tolerance to type II diabetes. Potential beneficial pleiotropic effects of statins are covered in this review.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11932481
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11933922
Lowering of serum cholesterol levels by pharmacologic intervention with statins reduces the incidence of cardiovascular events in subjects with and without atherosclerotic manifestations. In an 8-week, randomized, double-blind study we compared the efficacy and safety of the new compound atorvastatin for reducing LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) with placebo in an Asian patient cohort. Patients with LDL-C between 160 mg/dl and 250 mg/dl were randomly assigned to treatment with 10 mg atorvastatin or placebo once daily for 8 weeks. At the end of weeks 4 and 8 of the randomized phase, the serum concentrations of lipid parameters as well as safety parameters were determined. Fifty-four patients (32 males and 22 females) were enrolled. Twenty-six patients were assigned to the treatment group. The primary end-point, LDL-C, was reduced by 40% and 42% after 4 and 8 weeks of treatment in the atorvastatin treated patients (p<0.001). The reductions in total cholesterol and triglycerides were up to 31% and 23%, respectively. The HDL-C levels increased up to 11% (p=0.043). There were no significant adverse events. Transient increases in CPK levels (10 times) without myalgia were identified in 1 patient. Atorvastatin, 10 mg/day produced significant reductions in LDL-C, total cholesterol and triglycerides and an elevation of HDL-C levels when used as an adjunct to diet in hyperlipidemic patients. The majority of the clinical effects could be attained by week 4. The overall safety profile of atorvastatin was similar to that of placebo. Atorvastatin was considered to be well tolerated in this patient cohort.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11934339
A growing body of evidence suggests that several classes of drugs marketed for other indications may be effective in the prevention of Alzheimer's disease. Among the most promising of these are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, oestrogens (oestrogen replacement therapy) and antioxidant vitamins. Other less well-established candidates include histamine H(2) receptor antagonists (H(2) blockers) and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins). For each of these, we discuss possible mechanisms for their postulated neuroprotective effects and review the studies suggesting their benefits in Alzheimer's disease. We conclude that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and oestrogen replacement therapies may be effective in preventing Alzheimer's disease only if taken during the latent phase of the disease several years prior to the appearance of disturbances. Antioxidants may also prevent Alzheimer's disease, but unlike nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and oestrogen replacement therapies, they may continue to have beneficial effects even after the clinical onset of the disease. The only way to demonstrate the efficacy of these agents will be through randomised, controlled prevention trials. Such trials are currently underway but conclusive results may not be available for several years. Although intriguing, more studies on the neuroprotective effects of statins and H(2) blockers are needed before trials of these agents are initiated. Finally, there are other classes of pharmacological compounds emerging on the horizon, including folic acid, anti-beta-sheet conformational agents, secretase inhibitors and vaccines, that may soon prove to be effective for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11935713
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11936540
Statins inhibit the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, reduce the serum level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and are extensively prescribed to prevent cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Few systemic adverse effects, such as pseudopolymyositis, lupus-like syndromes, and anecdotal hypersensitivity pneumonitis, have been reported. A simvastatin-induced diffuse interstitial pneumonia associated with a nonspecific interstitial pneumonia pattern at histological analysis is repoted here. Ultrastructural analysis showed a diffuse cytoplasmic accumulation of intralysosomial lamellar inclusions in type II pneumonocytes, histiocytes and endothelial cells, suggesting a shared pathogenesis with amphiphilic drug-induced toxic lung injury. Because statins are increasingly prescribed, statin-induced interstitial lung disorders may be more frequently observed and early recognition will be required.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11936570
Atorvastatin is a common option among the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors for the treatment of lipid disorders because of its excellent lipid-lowering efficacy and overall safety profile. Although these agents can rarely cause rhabdomyolysis by themselves, macrolides, among other agents, have been demonstrated to increase the likelihood of this via inhibition of CYP metabolism of the lipid agent. This study investigated the potential for azithromycin and clarithromycin to inhibit the metabolism of atorvastatin. Although there was no interaction between azithromycin and atorvastatin, clarithromycin did have a significant effect on atorvastatin pharmacokinetic parameters. When coadministered, clarithromycin raised subject exposure (AUC24) by 82% and peak plasma concentrations by 56%. These data suggest that while azithromycin appears to be safe to coadminister with atorvastatin, clarithromycin should be avoided in patients taking this and similarly metabolized HMG-CoA inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11937434
Osteoporosis in women has received a substantial amount of attention, but its impact in men is also significant and noteworthy. Those men who benefit from treatment for prostate cancer with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) may also be at a higher risk for osteoporosis. Pharmacologic approaches to reduce this risk have received some attention. For example, agents such as bisphosphonates, estrogen receptor-binding drugs (diethylstilbestrol, tamoxifen, and raloxifene), calcitonin, and fluoride are some of the more promising interventions that have been previously outlined. In addition, statin drugs, or hepatic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, have recently been hypothesized to lower osteoporosis risk. However, complementary therapies, which may also have an impact on reducing osteoporosis risk, have not received attention. Dietary and supplemental calcium and vitamin D have been shown, in some preliminary investigations, to maintain bone density in women and men. Numerous healthy and affordable dietary sources of this mineral and vitamin exist, and large intakes can be realistically achieved through proper education. Similarly, the supplemental dosages required to impact risk have been moderate, appear to be safe, are of low cost, and thus may provide an additional route for reducing risk, especially if these interventions are initiated at the start of medical treatment. More studies in men receiving ADT are needed because the existing work has mostly focused on men without castrate levels of male hormone. Additionally, many studies with conventional and nonconventional agents have only focused on individuals with baseline osteoporosis, rather than normal bone mineral densities or osteopenia. Other promising complementary therapies, such as weight-bearing exercise and abstaining from smoking, may also be of benefit. Newer estrogenic-type supplements (eg, ipriflavone) appear interesting and have some preliminary data, but more research is desperately required to determine their actual impact and potential for adverse effects (such as lymphocytopenia from a recent trial). Simple, inexpensive, and potentially effective dietary and supplemental approaches to reduce the risk of osteoporosis in men exist, and they should be discussed with patients. Whether these approaches effectively reduce the risk of osteoporosis in men receiving androgen ablation remains to be determined. The possibility is intriguing, and future research is needed. In the meantime, it is important to keep in mind that these complementary approaches are, at the very least, an integral part of the conventional options used today to the reduce the risk of osteoporosis in men and women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11937774
Confusion exists concerning optimal selection of drugs for clinical practice. Many reasons contribute to this confusion which derives from various sources including industry, the FDA and often less than ideal education of physicians in clinical pharmacology during medical school and thereafter. This presentation does not focus on allocating blame for the current unsatisfactory situation, but rather offers a solution to improve drug therapy. Our educational solution consists of a paradigm for rational drug therapy, specifically a checklist of eight criteria for physicians to review before prescribing drugs. Such a review would facilitate better estimation by physicians of risk/benefit ratios involving new, often expensive and, in some cases, questionably effective and safe drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11939134
In the future, pharmacogenomics will play an important role in the treatment of patients by making it possible to predict drug response based on an individual's genetic make-up. Similarly, pharmacogenomics may be used to reduce the probability that adverse effects will occur. The use of a patient's genetic information will lead to greater predictability in clinical outcomes and personalisation of medical care. Pharmacogenomic information can also aid in drug development by helping to select individuals that are likely to respond to a medication for participation in clinical trials. Integration of pharmacogenomics into the healthcare system has a number of potential economic benefits, including reduced costs of healthcare and drug discovery. The FDA has no specific plans to regulate therapy-guiding pharmacogenomic tests, which are different from diagnostic genetic tests. There are a number of ethical issues related to pharmacogenomics, including the credibility of the system for protecting the rights and welfare of human research subjects, general concerns about genetic research, privacy issues and equitable distribution of the technology. To ensure integration of pharmacogenomics into the healthcare system it will be important to obtain public support through education about the benefits and risks of this technology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11942772
To compare the hypolipidemic effects of gemfibrozil and micronized fenofibrate in patients with primary hyperlipoproteinemia, phenotypes IIa and IIb, with emphasis on their cholesterol-lowering effectiveness.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11942773
To evaluate the effects of thiazolidinediones (TZDs) on specific high-density lipoprotein (HDL) subfractions (HDL2 and HDL3) in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11947910
Enhanced and prolonged postprandial lipaemia is implicated in coronary and carotid artery disease. This study assessed the effects of atorvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitor, on postprandial plasma concentrations of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRLs). Sixteen middle-aged men with combined hyperlipidaemia (baseline low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and plasma triglyceride concentrations (median (interquartile range) of 4.54 (4.17-5.26)) and 2.66 (2.04-3.20) mmol/l, respectively) and previous myocardial infarction were randomised to atorvastatin 40 mg or placebo once daily for 8 weeks in a double-blind, cross-over design. The apolipoprotein (apo) B-48 and B-100 contents were determined in subfractions of TRLs as a measure of chylomicron remnant and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) particle concentrations (expressed as mg apo B-48 or apo B-100 per litre of plasma), in the fasting state and after intake of a mixed meal. Atorvastatin treatment reduced significantly the fasting plasma concentrations of VLDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and VLDL triglycerides (median% change) by 29, 44 and 27%, respectively, and increased high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol by 19%, compared with baseline. The postprandial plasma concentrations of large (Svedberg flotation rate (Sf) 60-400) and small (Sf 20-60) VLDLs and chylomicron remnants were almost halved compared with baseline (mean 0-6 h plasma concentrations were reduced by 48% for Sf 60-400 apo B-100, by 46% for Sf 60-400 apo B-48, by 46% for Sf 20-60 apo B-100 and by 27% for Sf 20-60 apo B-48), and the postprandial triglyceridaemia was reduced by 23% during active treatment. In conclusion, atorvastatin 40 mg once daily causes profound reductions of postprandial plasma concentrations of all TRLs in combined hyperlipidaemic patients with premature coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11947912
The study was aimed at investigating the effects, after treatment for 1 year, of two different statins on the levels of circulating biochemical markers of endothelial function in patients with established coronary heart disease, with the hypothesis that statins might reduce these levels. Twenty-eight patients were randomized to treatment with atorvastatin and 30 to simvastatin for 1 year. The starting dose in both groups was 20 mg/day. Soluble forms of P-selectin, E-selectin, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) were determined to assess inflammatory activity of the endothelium, and tissue plasminogen activator antigen (tPAag), von Willebrand factor and thrombomodulin for evaluation of the haemostatic function. In the total study population there were significantly reduced levels after 1 year treatment in ICAM-1 (P<0.001), E-selectin (P=0.022) and P-selectin (P<0.001), whereas a significant increase was observed in VCAM-1 (P=0.003). Almost the same pattern was seen within both groups although the increase in VCAM-1 was only seen in the simvastatin group (P=0.017). An overall reduction in tPAag was further observed (P=0.048). The reduction in proinflammatory and to some extent haemostatic markers of endothelial function after 1 year treatment with either simvastatin or atorvastatin may be indicative of a less activated state of the endothelium which possibly may contribute to modulation of the progression of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11947915
The effects of pravastatin (pravachol) compared with gemfibrozil on cholesterol-rich and trigylceride-rich lipoproteins were evaluated in this multi-centered trial. Following an 8-12 week prerandomization phase, 136 patients with NIDDM and hypercholesterolemia were randomized to receive either pravastatin 40 mg or gemfibrozil 1200 mg daily for 16 weeks. The reduction of total cholesterol (TC), betaquant LDL and LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) was significantly greater in patients treated with pravastatin than with gemfibrozil. However, gemofibrozil treatment resulted in a significantly greater reduction of triglyceride (TG) levels than did treatment with pravastatin. Pravastatin reduced the concentration of apoB (-19.3%, P<0.001) and cholesterol-rich Lp-B (Lp-B+Lp-B; E) particles (-19%, P<0.001) to a significantly greater extent (P<-0.001) than gemfibrozil (-4.1 and -1%, respectively). Both gemfibrozil and pravastatin reduced the concentrations of trigylceride-rich Lp-Bc (-12.2 and -13.3%, respectively) and Lp-A-II;B;C;D;E (-19 and -12.7%, respectively) particles and their characteristic apoC-III constituent (-10.0 and -7.0%, respectively). In contrast, gemfibozil has a greater lowering effect compared with pravastatin on TG levels (-29.6 vs. -6.3%, respectively). Both pravastatin and gemfibrozil significantly increased the levels of apoA-I and, with both drugs, the elevated concentrations of apoA-I were due to significantly increased levels of Lp-A-I;A-II particles. By decreasing both cholesterol-rich Lp-B and triglyceride-rich Lp-Bc particles and increasing HDL-C and Lp-A-I;A-II particles in addition to proven efficacy in decreasing coronary events in NIDDM patients, pravastatin appears to be an appropriate choice for monotherapy in a broad range of diabetic patients with Type IIA and Type IIB hyperlipoproteinemias. These results also showed that direct measurement of lipoprotein family of particles provides important information not only about the composition but also the type and number of apoA- and apoB-containing lipoprotein particles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11948705
Plasma concentrations of cellular adhesion molecules are associated with atherosclerotic diseases and major cardiovascular risk factors. It was shown that LDL-apheresis with dextran sulfate lowers the levels of E-selectin and ICAM-1 in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia. The effects of different LDL-apheresis methods have not been studied yet. Cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, fibrinogen, and the adhesion molecules E-selectin, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1 were measured in 20 patients with coronary heart disease and severe hyperlipoproteinemia immediately before and after regular LDL-apheresis. Treatment was performed by different apheresis methods (direct absorption, DA, n = 6; dextran sulfate adsorption, DS, n = 7; heparin precipitation, HP, n = 7). Rebound data of adhesion molecule levels were obtained from 2 patients of each group. Lipids were reduced similarly in all groups. The concentrations of all adhesion molecules were lowered during apheresis. The reduction of E-selectin (-31 +/- 7 vs. -6 +/- 5 and -6 +/- 5%, respectively, P < 0.001) was most prominent in the patients treated by heparin precipitation. Depending on the method of LDL-apheresis, the concentrations of VCAM-1 and E-selectin in the outlets of the LDL-apheresis columns were significantly lower compared to the concentration in the inlets. Plasma concentrations of adhesion molecules increased to their pre-apheresis values within 2 to 4 days following LDL-apheresis. The reductions of adhesion molecule levels observed during LDL-apheresis are at least partly due to adsorption to the LDL-apheresis column. The extent of absorption depends on the principle of extracorporeal LDL elimination.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11950378
Tamsulosin is a subtype-selective alpha(1A)- and alpha(1D )-adrenoceptor antagonist. alpha(1)-Receptors predominate in the prostate gland, prostatic capsule, prostatic urethra and bladder, and the relaxation of prostate and bladder smooth muscles is associated with improved maximal urine flow (Q(max)) and alleviation of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Tamsulosin 0.4 mg once daily in a modified-release formulation increased Q(max) and improved symptom scores relative to baseline to a greater extent than placebo in 12- and 13-week double-blind, randomised, multicentre, clinical trials in patients with LUTS, with statistical significance between treatments for Q(max) values in two of three published US and European studies. Tamsulosin is effective in patients with mild to severe LUTS associated with BPH, in patients with diabetes mellitus and in the elderly, and does not interfere with concomitant antihypertensive therapy. Pooled data based on patients receiving tamsulosin 0.4 or 0. 8mg once daily indicate maintenance of efficacy for up to 6 years. Tamsulosin 0.4 mg once daily was of similar efficacy to alfuzosin 2.5 mg three times daily, with less tendency to cause hypotensive effects, in a double-blind, randomised 12-week trial. Benefit of the drug has also been shown in patients with acute urinary retention or chronic abacterial prostatitis, those receiving high energy transurethral microwave thermotherapy, and in patients with prostate cancer with radiation-induced urethritis. Dizziness and abnormal ejaculation are stated to be the most common adverse events, with asthenia, postural hypotension and palpitations being seen less frequently (1 to 2% incidence), in patients receiving tamsulosin 0.4 mg once daily. Tamsulosin has not been associated with clinically significant changes in blood pressure in clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11950425
We evaluated a possible interaction between statins and inflammation in 1,246 patients with angiographically diagnosed coronary artery disease. Four different inflammatory markers were determined: high, sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) (p = 0.001), fibrinogen (p = 0.006), von Willebrand factor (p = 0.006), and leukocyte count (p = 0.03); these levels were significantly higher among the 88 patients who died of cardiac causes during follow-up (median 2.9 years) than among survivors. In a multivariate backward stepwise Cox regression mode, only hs-CRP was evaluated to be a significant predictor of death from coronary artery disease. This prediction was lost in statin-treated patients. Compared with patients receiving statin medication, patients without statins did not have increased cardiac mortality (even when low-density lipoprotein [LDL] levels were >125 mg/dl) when hs-CRP levels were not elevated. In contrast, patients without statins and elevated hs-CRP (top quartile) had a 2.3-fold increase in risk for fatal coronary events, independent of LDL levels. In conclusion, only elevated hs-CRP was selected as an independent predictor of death. Statin therapy is associated with elevated hs-CRP, with a risk reduction for fatal coronary events, independent of LDL levels; this, in part, may be explained by the anti-inflammatory effects on atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11952022
The antihyperglycemic effects of pioglitazone hydrochloride and rosiglitazone maleate are well documented. The results of clinical trials and observational studies have suggested, however, that there are individual differences in the effects of these drugs on blood lipid levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11952885
To study the effect of statins on plasma markers for inflammation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11957568
Osteoporosis is a major public health problem leading to morbidity and mortality in many individuals. Treatment for osteoporosis has generally relied on mechanisms that decrease osteoclastic bone resorption. This review outlines new evidence that the cholesterol synthetic pathway may be important in bone metabolism and that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors or statins may increase bone formation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11958392
Diabetes mellitus is increasing throughout the world. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) accounts for up to 80% of excess mortality in this high-risk population. Patients with diabetes have the same CVD risk factors as those people without diabetes. However, these risk factors are much more powerful in diabetic patients. CVD risk is especially high for diabetic women, and premenopausal diabetic women lose all the protection normally afforded to them by female sex hormones. Controlled clinical trials have clearly demonstrated that rigorous treatment of blood pressure, dyslipidemia and platelet hyperaggrebility strikingly reduces CVD risk in diabetic patients. Strategies directed at interrupting the renin-angiotensin system (both tissue and systemic systems) and the use of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors have proven to be especially beneficial for this high-risk population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11959219
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11959239
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11959338
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11959339
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11959343
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11959344
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11960327
The statin family of drugs target HMG-CoA reductase, the rate-limiting enzyme of the mevalonate pathway, and have been used successfully in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia for the past 15 years. Experimental evidence suggests this key biochemical pathway holds an important role in the carcinogenic process. Moreover, statin administration in vivo can provide an oncoprotective effect. Indeed, in vitro studies have shown the statins can trigger cells of certain tumor types, such as acute myelogenous leukemia, to undergo apoptosis in a sensitive and specific manner. Mechanistic studies show bcl-2 expression is down-regulated in transformed cells undergoing apoptosis in response to statin exposure. In addition, the apoptotic response is in part due to the depletion of the downstream product geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate, but not farnesyl pyrophosphate or other products of the mevalonate pathway including cholesterol. Clinically, preliminary phase I clinical trials have shown the achievable plasma concentration corresponds to the dose range that can trigger apoptosis of tumor types in vitro. Moreover, little toxicity was evident in vivo even at high concentrations. Clearly, additional clinical trials are warranted to further assess the safety and efficacy of statins as novel and immediately available anti-cancer agents. In this article, the experimental evidence supporting a role for the statin family of drugs to this new application will be reviewed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11964921
Although pneumonia caused by fungi is not a common occurrence in the general population, disease in an enlarging immunocompromised population is encountered with increasing frequency. Fungal pneumonias are most frequently caused by Aspergillus spp., dimorphic fungi and Cryptococcus neoformans. Recent studies have identified risk factors of thrombocytopenia, environmental events (such as construction or renovation) and immunosuppressive drug therapies as being specific risk factors for invasive fungal disease in select patient populations. Diagnostic strategies to detect circulating antigens and polymerase chain reaction based detection systems have been explored to improve identification prior to the progressive advanced disease. Advances in prophylactic strategies include increased use of aerosolized formulations of amphotericin B, usually in conjunction with new and old systemic antifungal agents. Despite recent published guidelines for treatment of fungal pneumonia based on etiology, mortality remains high in some infections with advanced disease. Caspofungin, a new echinocandin antifungal, has recently been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of invasive Aspergillus infections in patients unresponsive to or unable to receive amphotericin B. A triazole antifungal, voriconazole, has shown promise in phase III clinical trials in patients with refractory fungal infections and is expected to be available in early 2002. Other echinocandin and triazole antifungals are under development in attempts to provide improved effective therapy for fungal pneumonia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11965265
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11966402
Genetic diversity in the form of single nucleotide DNA polymorphisms (SNPs) contributes to variable disease susceptibility and drug response. The candidate gene approach has been widely used to identify the genetic basis for pharmacogenetic traits and becomes increasingly more powerful with the recent advances in genomic technologies. High-throughput sequencing and SNP genotyping technologies allow the study of thousands of candidate genes and the identification of those involved in drug efficacy and toxicity. Expression-based genomic technologies such as DNA microarrays and proteomics also facilitate the understanding of important biological and pharmacological pathways, thus identifying more candidate genes for SNP studies. Candidate gene-based pharmacogenetic studies will lead to improved drug development, improved clinical trial design and therapeutics tailored to individual genotypes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11966668
Several studies have found that compliance with lipid-lowering drug (LLD) treatment is low. However, the results of these studies were based on crude measures of compliance. The aim of this study was to describe compliance with statin treatment by analysing prescription patterns on an individual level in a population-based prescription database over a 6 year period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11971940
The density distribution of electronegative LDL [LDL(-)], a cytotoxic and inflammatory fraction of LDL present in plasma, was studied in 10 normolipemic (NL), 6 FH, and 11 hypertriglyceridemic (HTG) subjects. Six LDL subclasses of increased density (LDL1 to LDL6) were isolated by density-gradient ultracentrifugation (DGU). NL and FH subjects showed prevalence of light LDL, whereas HTG subjects showed prevalence of dense LDL. LDL(-) proportion was determined from total LDL or LDL-density subclasses by anion-exchange chromatography. LDL from FH patients had increased LDL(-) (35.1 +/- 9.9%) compared with LDL from NL and HTG subjects (9.4 +/- 2.3% and 12.3 +/- 4.3%, respectively). Most LDL(-) was contained in dense subclasses in NL (LDL4-6, 67.7 +/- 3.1%) whereas most of LDL(-) from FH patients were contained in light LDL subclasses (LDL1-3) (86.2 +/- 1.6%). In these subjects, simvastatin therapy decreased LDL(-) to 28.2 +/- 6.7% and 21.2 +/- 5.6% at 3 and 6 months of treatment, respectively, due mainly to decreases in light LDL subclasses. In HTG subjects, half LDL(-) was contained in dense LDL subclasses (LDL4-6, 46.1 +/- 2.0%). Non-denaturing acrylamide gradient gel electrophoresis concurred with DGU data, as LDL(-) from NL showed a single band of lower size than non-electronegative LDL [LDL(+)], whereas LDL(-) from FH and HTG presented bands of greater size than its respective LDL(+). These results reveal the existence of light and dense LDL(-), indicate that hyperlipemia could promote the formation of light LDL(-) and suggest that LDL(-) could have different origins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11971941
Elevated plasma concentration of chylomicron remnants may be causally related to atherosclerosis in obesity. We examined the effect of atorvastatin on chylomicron remnant metabolism in 25 obese men with dyslipidaemia. A remnant-like emulsion labeled with cholesteryl [(13)C]oleate was injected intravenously into patients; the fractional catabolic rate (FCR) of the remnant-like emulsion was determined by measurement of (13)CO(2) in the breath and analyzed using compartmental modelling. Compared with placebo, atorvastatin significantly decreased the plasma concentrations of total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein B (apoB), and lathosterol (P < 0.001). ApoB-48 and remnant-like particle-cholesterol (RLP-C) both decreased significantly by 23% (P = 0.002) and 33% (P = 0.045), respectively. The FCR of the remnant-like emulsion increased significantly from 0.054 +/- 0.008 to 0.090 +/- 0.010 pools/h (P = 0.002). The decrease in RLP-C was associated with the decrease in plasma triglycerides (r = 0.750, P = 0.003). Furthermore, the change in FCR of remnant-like emulsions was inversely associated with the change in LDL-C (r = -0.575, P = 0.040), suggesting removal of LDL and chylomicron remnants by similar hepatic receptor pathways. We conclude that in obese subjects, inhibition of cholesterol synthesis with atorvastatin decreases the plasma concentrations of both LDL-C and triglyceride-rich remnants and that this may be partially due to an enhancement in hepatic clearance of these lipoproteins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11972540
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11975764
The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors are frequently utilized in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. With recently completed statin clinical cardiovascular outcomes data available, the purpose of this review is to analyze the relative benefits of each molecule and to determine whether "lower is better" is a correct hypothesis for secondary prevention. Twenty-one clinical studies, each with a duration of statin therapy of 6 months or longer, were reviewed, and the pharmacologic effects of these agents on cardiovascular outcomes was examined. As evaluated by study drug, statistical event reduction was achieved in seven of nine pravastatin studies, one of three simvastatin studies, one of six lovastatin studies, zero of two fluvastatin studies, and zero of one atorvastatin study. Pravastatin was the only statin proven statistically to reduce events in both primary and secondary prevention. Thus, all of the statins do not appear to be the same in terms of their ability to reduce cardiovascular events. Until head-to-head trials have been completed, these clinical outcomes data suggest that in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia who require high-dose statin therapy, simvastatin 80 mg each evening would appear to be the agent of choice. However, pravastatin 40 mg daily at bedtime appears to be a unique molecule, with the strongest evidence for event reduction in the majority of patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia with, or who are at risk for, coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11975844
Advicor (lovastatin and extended-release niacin) is the first cholesterol-lowering combination product to become available for the management of hyperlipidemia. Lovastatin significantly lowers low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, whereas niacin significantly lowers triglycerides and lipoprotein (a) and markedly increases high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. These effects are ideal for managing a variety of lipid disorders, including metabolic syndrome. Lovastatin and niacin reduce coronary heart disease mortality in primary and secondary prevention patients, respectively. The extended-release niacin component uses a unique technology to minimize adverse effects (e.g., flushing and hepatotoxicity) while retaining the same lipid-altering effects as immediate-release niacin. The combination product appears to be well tolerated, with discontinuation due to adverse effects other than flushing occurring in a similar percent of patients as for lovastatin in clinical trials. Approximately 9% of patients discontinued the combination product due to flush. No confined cases of myopathy or hepatotoxicity have been reported with this product. Once-daily dosing provides ease of administration that should improve compliance and result in a greater proportion of patients meeting their low-density lipoprotein cholesterol goals. The nomenclature surrounding niacin products used to treat dyslipidemias is confusing. While only two types of niacin formulations exist (immediate-release formulations and formulations which dissolve more slowly than immediate-release formulations), government regulations allow for slowly dissolved niacin formulations to be divided into two types of niacin products; those that are available over-the-counter (OTC) and those that are available by prescription only. Over-the-counter slowly dissolved niacin preparations are not classified as OTC per se, but are considered "nutritional supplements". For this reason, they fall under the jurisdiction of the Federal Trade Commission and do not fall under the umbrella of the FDA branch that controls dyslipidemic products (Endocrine and Metabolic Division of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research). The slowly dissolved niacin nutritional supplements have not been reviewed by the FDA for safety nor efficacy in the treatment of dyslipidemia nor are they required to meet generic drug rules (even though various brands are available). These brands are described on their labels as "sustained-release", "timed-release", and "slow-release" for example. Only two slowly absorbed niacin products have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of dyslipidemia; they are Niaspan (Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Miami, FL) and Advicor (Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Miami, FL). The term "extended-release" has been given to these two products to simplify the terminology and differentiate the products from immediate-release niacin. In this review, we will use "extended-release" to refer to the FDA approved slowly dissolving niacin preparation and "sustained-release" to refer to the nutritional supplements (not FDA approved).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11976073
There is considerable evidence that more aggressive lowering of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol is associated with increased benefits in reducing atherosclerotic disease burden, supporting the notion of 'the lower, the better.' However, achievement of currently recommended goals has proven difficult with lipid-lowering agents at the commonly used doses. Current options for achieving greater LDL cholesterol reductions include use of high doses of the most effective of the available statins and use of high or moderate statin doses in combination with agents that work in a complementary manner (e.g. bile acid sequestrants or niacin). Near-term options may include statins with increased LDL cholesterol-lowering effectiveness and better-tolerated secondary agents that can be combined with statin therapy. Rosuvastatin (Crestor, AstraZeneca) is a new statin that may prove to be of considerable utility in achieving greater LDL cholesterol reductions than are currently possible with existing statins. Recent phase III clinical trials have shown that this agent produces significantly greater LDL cholesterol reductions than atorvastatin, simvastatin, or pravastatin in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and significantly greater reductions than the maximal dose of atorvastatin in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11976074
Familial hypercholesterolemia provides an excellent model for demonstrating how disease prevention can be facilitated by molecular characterization of a genetic disease. To achieve the most efficient yield in terms of patient identification and coronary heart disease prevention, family information should be obtained in the primary care setting. In the majority of cases, measurement of cholesterol levels in a patient's relatives is sufficient to determine presence or absence of familial hypercholesterolemia, and DNA testing may be used in those cases in which cholesterol level is not diagnostic. DNA testing has enabled a more refined assessment of the absolute cardiovascular risks associated with familial hypercholesterolemia, which is currently estimated to have a 50% mortality rate by age 60. Recent investigations using DNA testing have suggested that familial hypercholesterolemia is implicated in one of 12 cases of cardiovascular disease in individuals aged <65 years. Only the most potent lipid-modifying therapies should be used in those found to be affected by this disorder. In this regard, it is noteworthy that the new statin rosuvastatin (Crestor; AstraZeneca) was recently shown to produce significantly greater low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reductions and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol increases than atorvastatin in a large study in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia, while bringing more of these patients to LDL cholesterol goals. Familial hypercholesterolemia should serve as a paradigm of molecular medicine: we understand the genetic defect, we have the tools to identify the individuals who are at high risk of disease because they have the defect, and we have therapies that can prevent clinical disease. It nevertheless requires effort on the part of clinicians to ensure that optimal risk assessment is performed and optimal treatment provided.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11976075
Rosuvastatin (Crestor, AstraZeneca) is a new synthetic statin that exhibits a number of highly desirable pharmacologic characteristics. The drug has a high affinity for the active site of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase and exhibits greater potency in inhibiting enzyme activity and cholesterol synthesis in vitro than other statins. The effects of rosuvastatin are selective for hepatic cells, and there is minimal uptake of the drug by nonhepatic tissues. The vast majority of biologic activity of the drug is associated with the parent compound, which does not appear to undergo extensive metabolism. Hepatic metabolism appears to be minimal, and there is little evidence of metabolic interaction with cytochrome P450 3A4. In an early-phase study, rosuvastatin produced large and dose-related decreases in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol of up to 65% in hypercholesterolemic patients. Rosuvastatin should constitute an important addition to current lipid-lowering interventions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11978140
The treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma (CTCL), which includes mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome, has been in a state of continual change over recent decades, as new therapies are constantly emerging in the search for more effective treatments for the disease. However, prognosis and survival of patients with CTCL remains dependent upon overall clinical stage (stage IA-IVB) at presentation, as well as response to therapy. Past therapies have been limited by toxicity or the lack of consistently durable responses, and few treatments have been shown to actually alter survival, especially in the late stages of disease. Even aggressive chemotherapy has not been shown to improve overall survival compared to conservative sequential therapy in advanced disease, and adds the risk of immunosuppressive complications. Over the last decade, extracorporeal photopheresis has been the only single treatment that has been shown to improve survival in patients with Sezary syndrome, although its true efficacy and place in combination therapy remain unclear. Much of the focus of current research has been on combinations of skin-directed therapies and biological response modifiers, which improve response rates. The results of various trials over the years have also brought into favor the use of post-remission maintenance therapy with topical corticosteroids, topical mechlorethamine (nitrogen mustard), interferon-alpha, or phototherapy to prevent disease relapse. Recent novel developments in CTCL therapy include oral bexarotene, a retinoid X receptor-selective retinoid that has activity in all stages of CTCL, and the topical gel formulation of bexarotene, which plays a role in treating localized lesions. US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved, oral systemic bexarotene has the advantage of a 48% overall response rate at a dosage of 300 mg/m(2)/day, and avoids immunosuppression and risk of central line and catheter-related infectious complications that are associated with other systemic therapies. Monitoring of triglycerides and use of concomitant lipid-lowering agents and thyroid replacement is required in most patients. Also recently FDA-approved, denileukin diftitox is the first of a novel class of fusion toxin proteins and is selective for interleukin-2R (CD25+) T cells, targeting the malignant T cell clones in CTCL. Denileukin diftitox is associated with capillary leak syndrome in 20 to 30% of patients, which may be ameliorated by hydration and corticosteroids. Higher response rates are possible by combining bexarotene with "statin" drugs and active CTCL therapies. Studies are being conducted on combining bexarotene and denileukin diftitox with other modalities. Biological response modifier therapies that are in current or future investigational trials include topical tazarotene, pegylated interferon, interleukin-2, and interleukin-12. At the forefront of systemic chemotherapy development, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, gemcitabine, and pentostatin appear to have the greatest potential for success in CTCL therapy. Bone marrow transplantation, which is currently limited by the risk of graft-versus-host disease, offers the greatest potential for disease cure. Further developments for CTCL may include more selective immunomodulatory agents, vaccines, and monoclonal antibodies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11978147
The benefits of lipid-lowering drug treatment for the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease have been well established by randomized, controlled trials. Nonetheless, the risk of events has not been compared directly for inhibitors of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (statins) and non-statin lipid-lowering drugs. Further, it remains uncertain whether patients in usual practice who are treated with lipid-lowering drugs after myocardial infarction (MI) gain a similar benefit with regard to the risk of cardiovascular events compared with patients in randomized, controlled trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11978227
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11978260
Twenty-four consecutive patients of a single family physician who had achieved NCEP-II goal levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) on a daily atorvastatin dose of 10 mg for at least 6 months were invited to switch to 20 mg weekly. Mean LDL levels for the 22 patients who completed the trial had been reduced by 43% from baseline on 10 mg daily (P <.05) and were reduced by 22% from baseline on the seventh day following the last weekly dose of 20 mg (P <.05). Total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (TC/HDL-C) ratios were reduced by 31% and 17%, respectively (both P <.05) and triglycerides by 20% and 10% (both P <.05).

Abstract for pubmed ID 11978263
In 1995 and 1996, US adults made more than 18 million office visits for the evaluation and treatment of hyperlipidemia, including 3.4% of all visits to family physicians. Among visits to family physicians, 4.1% included measurement of cholesterol levels.(1) Overall, mean cholesterol levels decreased from 220 in 1960-1962 to 203 in 1988-1994. During the same time period, the proportion of adults with elevated total cholesterol levels (> 240) decreased from 32% to 19%.(2) Despite this progress, the availability of more effective drugs, guidelines advocating increasingly aggressive treatment, and population-wide goals established in Healthy People 2010 will continue to increase the number of patients seen by family physicians for screening, diagnosis, and treatment of hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11978950
Over the last 30 years, several epidemiological and prospective studies have identified a number of risk factors for the development of cardiovascular disease. Lipid abnormalities are central among these risk factors, and their correction has been a major target for the medical community. The 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA reductase) inhibitors (statins) are the most widely prescribed and best tolerated of the currently available lipid-modifying therapies. Newer agents in this class (e.g. rosuvastatin) have been developed that have proven to be more effective at lowering levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). New formulations of drugs such as nicotinic acid can improve treatment regimens and reduce unpleasant side-effects, thereby improving patient compliance with this therapy. In terms of developing novel drugs, the introduction of cholesterol absorption inhibitors (e.g. ezetimibe) and ACAT inhibitors (e.g. avasimibe) will provide clinicians with therapies that exploit different therapeutic pathways to those currently being utilised. Combining these agents with statins could produce greater improvements in lipid profile than those seen to date. In addition, advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology of dyslipidaemia have led to the identification of other novel therapeutic targets, including cholesteryl ester transfer protein. Studies with experimental drugs have already demonstrated the potential of these approaches.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11981263
Dyslipidemias are common in patients with chronic kidney disease. The causes vary with the stage of kidney disease, the degree of proteinuria, and the modality of end-stage renal disease treatment. Dyslipidemias have been associated with kidney disease progression, and a number of small, randomized, controlled trials of lipid-lowering agents have been conducted. Unfortunately, the results of these trials, although encouraging, have been inconclusive because of the small numbers of patients enrolled. Dyslipidemias may also contribute to the high incidence of cardiovascular disease in patients with chronic kidney disease. This is most likely for patients with chronic renal insufficiency and for kidney transplant recipients. Less certain is the role of dyslipidemias in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease among dialysis patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11982746
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 11982954
The laboratory results of five periods of different treatment regimens were compared in a 19-year-old girl with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH): weekly low-density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis sessions with dextran sulfate columns (LA 15, Kaneka Corporation, Osaka, Japan) without statin administration; weekly LDL apheresis with polyacrylate columns (DALI, Fresenius Adsorber Technology, Bad Homburg, Germany) without statin; LDL apheresis as in Period 2 with 40 mg atorvastatin daily; LDL apheresis as in Period 2 with 80 mg atorvastatin daily; and fortnightly LDL apheresis sessions with polyacrilate and administration of 80 mg atorvastatin daily. The five treatments were given in the above order, and each lasted at least 2 months. To compare the effectiveness of the different methods, the blood levels of total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol were measured before each session, and the percentage decreases in the blood levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol were recorded during sessions in Periods 1 and 2. In Periods 1 and 2, the biological effectiveness of LDL apheresis was comparable. Atorvastatin (40 mg daily) improved the blood levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol, but lowered HDL-cholesterol values. Increasing the daily dose of atorvastatin from 40 mg to 80 mg did not significantly improve LDL-cholesterol levels. When the time between two sessions was longer (Period 5), the total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol values worsened and were comparable to those of Period 2 during which there was no atorvastatin treatment. In this case of homozygous FH, weekly sessions of LDL apheresis in association with atorvastatin at dose of 40 mg per day gave the best results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11984212
The ATHEROMA study is a prospective, multicentre, randomized controlled study in Japan to assess the changes of coronary atherosclerosis of patients with pre-existing coronary artery disease (CAD) by cholesterol-lowering therapy (CLT) using pravastatin 10-20 mg per day for 3 years. The primary objective is to evaluate the changes in coronary minimum lumen diameters by quantitative coronary arteriography, and the secondary outcome is to observe morphological changes of plaques and clinical events including mortality, recurrence of CAD and the requirement of any coronary intervention. The primary objective will test the hypothesis that CLT results in a beneficial effect on coronary vessels in patients with coronary atherosclerosis in Japan, where the incidence of CAD is the lowest among industrialized countries. A total of 373 eligible patients were recruited from 799 patients and allocated to a dietary (n=187) and pravastatin regimen (n=186) by the minimization method. Clinical characteristics in the two groups were well matched and there were no differences in serum lipids and coronary status between them. The average +/- SD (range) of total, LDL and HDL cholesterol were 225.6 +/- 17.3 mg/dl, 141.9 +/- 21.2 mg/dl and 49.4 +/- 12.0 mg/dl, respectively. Three years of follow-up were completed in late 2000, and cine angiograms blinded through the study coordinating centre were interpreted at the angiographic core laboratory. The final results, which are due to be published in 2002, will reveal whether or not specifically designed prophylactic strategy based on different cultural background is required.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11984215
Statin-fibrate combinations are very effective in the treatment of familial combined hyperlipidaemia (FCHL). Nonetheless, they have not been extensively used because of the fear of side effects. Thus, a therapeutic alternative is required for this lipid disorder.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11989073
To determine the usefulness of different intensities of follow up when atorvastatin is used in the secondary prevention of ischemic heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11994377
We examined the effect of atorvastatin, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, on the kinetics of apolipoprotein B-100 (apoB) metabolism in 25 viscerally obese men in a placebo-controlled study. Very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) apoB kinetics were measured using an iv bolus injection of [(2)H(3)]leucine. ApoB isotopic enrichment was measured using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Kinetic parameters were derived by using a multicompartmental model (SAAM-II). Compared with the placebo group, atorvastatin treatment resulted in significant (P < 0.001) decreases in total cholesterol (-34%), triglyceride (-19%), LDL cholesterol (-42%), total apoB (-39%), and lathosterol (-86%); VLDL-apoB, IDL-apoB, and LDL-apoB pool sizes also fell significantly (P < 0.002) by -27%, -22%, and -41%, respectively. This was associated with an increase in the fractional catabolic rates of VLDL-apoB (+58%, P = 0.019), IDL-apoB (+40%, P = 0.049), and LDL-apoB (+111%, P = 0.001). However, atorvastatin did not significantly alter the production and conversion rates of apoB in all lipoproteins. We conclude that in obese subjects, atorvastatin decreases the plasma concentration of all apoB-containing lipoproteins chiefly by increasing their catabolism and not by decreasing their production or secretion. This may be owing to up-regulation of hepatic receptors as a consequence of inhibition of cholesterogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11996199
The statins may not only lower cholesterol, they may stimulate bone formation, as suggested by a number of observational studies and animal research. Whether these drugs will be of benefit in treating osteoporosis awaits further clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11996608
Despite increasing evidence that beta-hydroxy-beta-methyglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors reduce the incidence of stroke in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD), the associations between blood lipid levels and cerebrovascular disease (CVD) are not clear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11996626
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death in the US. The risk of CHD is substantially increased in people with elevated levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) are the most effective drug class for lowering LDL-C. Long-term prospective studies have shown that statin therapy significantly reduces the risk of CHD morbidity and mortality in patients without or with evidence of established CHD (primary and secondary prevention, respectively). In 1988, treatment guidelines were first issued by the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel I (NCEP-ATP I), then revised in 1993 (ATP II), to provide recommendations for the prevention and management of high cholesterol in adults. Despite these guidelines, recent national surveys have shown that effective therapies are being under-utilised and they often fail to achieve LDL-C goals established by NCEP-ATP II. The reasons appear to be multifactorial but include issues related to efficacy, safety, the potential for adverse drug reactions, failure to prescribe appropriate medication or dose and noncompliance with therapy. In the first major update of NCEP guidelines in almost a decade, the current ATP III recommendations have placed an increased number of Americans in the high-risk category, inviting even more aggressive therapy and escalating the challenge of reaching NCEP goals. New statins that may have even greater efficacy and less potential for drug interactions may help address some concerns associated with the failure to achieve treatment goals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11996943
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a non-specific but sensitive marker of underlying systemic inflammation. High CRP plasma levels correlate with risk for future cardiovascular events. The present study evaluated the effects of atorvastatin (10-40 mg) and bezafibrate (400 mg) on CRP concentrations after 6 and 12 months of treatment in 103 patients with combined (mixed) hyperlipidemia. The number of cardiovascular risk factors present in a given patient was associated with baseline CRP levels. After 6 months and 1 year, atorvastatin treatment was associated with significant (P<0.001) decreases from baseline of CRP concentrations by 29 and 43%, respectively, while bezafibrate-treated patients showed non-significant reductions of 2.3 and 14.6%, respectively (P=0.056 and 0.005 for the respective differences between the two treatment arms at 6 months and 1 year). The magnitude of change in CRP after 1 year was directly related to baseline CRP levels. Covariance analysis showed that CRP decreases in the atorvastatin group were unrelated to total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol reductions; however, they were directly related to triglyceride changes (r=0.28, P=0.047) and inversely related to HDL cholesterol changes (r=-0.28, P=0.045). A model including baseline CRP values and treatment effect showed that atorvastatin use was a significant predictor of change in CRP levels over time (beta=0.82, P=0.023). These results suggest a potential anti-atherosclerotic additional benefit of atorvastatin in patients at a risk of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11996956
The objective of the present study was to compare the effects of a 16-week pharmacotherapy with fenofibrate (200 mg) or pravastatin (initially 20 mg for 8-weeks and, if necessary, increased to 40 mg) on low density lipoprotein (LDL) particle size assessed by gradient gel electrophoresis among patients with type IIa dyslipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11996957
Pitavastatin (p-INN) is a novel and fully synthetic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, with a cholesterol-lowering action stronger than that of other statins currently in use. A 12-week, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, controlled study was conducted to confirm the efficacy and safety of pitavastatin compared with pravastatin, an agent for using to reduce low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in hypercholesterolemic patients. Patients were recruited at 43 institutes in Japan. Following more than 4 weeks run-in period, 240 patients were randomized to receive 2 mg of pitavastatin or 10 mg of pravastatin daily. At 12 weeks post-randomization, the pitavastatin group showed significantly lower LDL-C levels by -37.6% from baseline compared with -18.4% in the pravastatin group (P<0.05). Pitavastatin also significantly lowered total cholesterol (TC) by -28.2% compared with -14.0% of pravastatin (P<0.05). The LDL-C target level of <140 mg/dl was attained in 75% of the patients treated with pitavastatin, compared with 36% of those in the pravastatin group (P<0.05). Pitavastatin also significantly reduced triglycerides (TG), apo B, C-II and C-III, compared with pravastatin, and increased HDL-C, apo A-I and A-II, to the same extent of pravastatin. Safety was assessed by monitoring adverse events and measuring clinical laboratory parameters. The adverse event profile was similar for both treatment groups and neither treatment caused clinically relevant laboratory abnormalities. These results indicated that pitavastatin was more effective than pravastatin, and both drugs were well-tolerated in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 11999665
The long-term effects of the 3-hydoxy-3-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, pravastatin, on exercise electrocardiography (ECG) test performance and cardiovascular mortality and morbidity were compared with those of conventional lipid-lowering drugs in hypercholesterolemic patients with no history of myocardial infarction or stroke. One thousand two hundred and seventeen patients were randomly assigned with mean serum cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels of 6.98 +/- 0.91mmol/L, 2.08 +/- 1.87mmol/L, 1.38 +/- 0.44mmol/L, and 5.07 +/- 1.14 mmol/L, respectively, and received either pravastatin at a dose of 10-20mg/day (group P) or one of the conventional lipid-lowering drugs such as fibrates, nicotinic acid, and probucol (group C). The numbers of patients available for analysis in groups P and C were 305 and 278 at year 1, 261 and 216 at year 2, 206 and 184 at year 3, 159 and 122 at year 4, and 103 and 81 at year 5. Over the 3.2 year mean follow-up period, the reduction in serum LDL cholesterol levels was significantly greater (p<0.01) in group P (-24.3%) than in group C (-16.0%). Serum HDL cholesterol levels increased in group P (+11.6%), but decreased in group C (-0.3%) (p<0.01). There were no significant differences in the rate of patients who exhibited ischemic changes to exercise ECG test (ischemic responders) between the 2 groups. Coronary heart diseases (CHD) occurred in 6 patients in group P and 13 in group C; pravastatin significantly reduced CHD risk (reduction rate 0.369; 95% confidence interval 0.140-0.970; p<0.05). No significant differences existed between the treatment groups in terms of the number of strokes (group P, 6; group C, 7) or deaths unrelated to CHD (group P, 3; group C, 2). Although pravastatin did not improve the proportion of ischemic responders on exercise testing, it reduced CHD risk and serum LDL cholesterol levels more significantly than conventional lipid-lowering drugs without adversely affecting the risk of stroke and non-CHD death in hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12000046
The clinical decision to treat hypercholesterolemia is premised on an awareness of patient risk, and cardiac risk prediction models offer a practical means of determining such risk. However, these models are based on observational cohorts where estimates of the treatment benefit are largely inferred. The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) provides an opportunity to develop a risk-benefit prediction model from the actual observed primary event reduction seen in the trial. Five-year Cox model risk estimates were derived from all WOSCOPS subjects (n = 6,595 men, aged 45 to 64 years old at baseline) using factors previously shown to be predictive of definite fatal coronary heart disease or nonfatal myocardial infarction. Model risk factors included age, diastolic blood pressure, total cholesterol/ high-density lipoprotein ratio (TC/HDL), current smoking, diabetes, family history of fatal coronary heart disease, nitrate use or angina, and treatment (placebo/ 40-mg pravastatin). All risk factors were expressed as categorical variables to facilitate risk assessment. Risk estimates were incorporated into a simple, hand-held slide rule or risk tool. Risk estimates were identified for 5-year age bands (45 to 65 years), 4 categories of TC/HDL ratio (<5.5, 5.5 to <6.5, 6.5 to <7.5, > or = 7.5), 2 levels of diastolic blood pressure (<90, > or = 90 mm Hg), from 0 to 3 additional risk factors (current smoking, diabetes, family history of premature fatal coronary heart disease, nitrate use or angina), and pravastatin treatment. Five-year risk estimates ranged from 2% in very low-risk subjects to 61% in the very high-risk subjects. Risk reduction due to pravastatin treatment averaged 31%. Thus, the Cardiovascular Event Reduction Tool (CERT) is a risk prediction model derived from the WOSCOPS trial. Its use will help physicians identify patients who will benefit from cholesterol reduction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12002257
HMG CoA reductase inhibitiors (statins) have been shown to be effective lipid lowering agents and are able to significantly reduce cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in patients at risk for cardiovascular disease. Recent clinical and experimental data suggest that the benefit of statins may extend beyond their hepatic effects on serum cholesterol levels. This review summarizes the current evidence and the molecular mechanisms of the direct effects of statins on plaque stability, inflammation, endothelial function, oxidative stress, thrombosis and stroke. Furthermore, recent data on the effects of statins on bone marrow, bone density and dementia are described. In summary, statins have emerged as a novel and powerful tool to study cardiovascular biology, including protein isoprenylation, small G protein function, leukocyte activity and endothelial progenitor cells. These pleiotropic properties of statins may have important clinical implications in addition to lowering serum cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12006915
Statin drugs are known to cause dose-dependent abnormalities in liver function tests (LFTs), with elevations three times the upper limits of normal of the aminotransferase enzymes in up to 2.5% of patients on the highest prescribable doses. The Program on the Surgical Control of the Hyperlipidemias (POSCH) trial employed no hypocholesterolaemic drugs and used a surgical procedure, partial ileal bypass, as the intervention modality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12006916
Few things are better understood within the medical community than the relationship between elevated total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, cardiovascular disease and death. There is consensus in the treatment guidelines of numerous national and international bodies that cholesterol levels in at-risk patients should be reduced to target levels that have been shown in population studies to be associated with low rates of coronary heart disease (CHD). However, dyslipidaemia continues to be underdiagnosed and undertreated. The 'landmark' statin trials have demonstrated unequivocally that effective lipid-lowering therapy significantly decreases CHD morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, these benefits of lipid-lowering therapy are not limited to middle-aged men, but extend across a broad range of patient populations. Recent trial data suggest that lowering LDL-C to target levels is possible in a substantial proportion of patients when statins are administered aggressively and results in a greater reduction in the risk of major coronary events. This reduction in events is seen in patients with stable coronary disease as well as those treated immediately after an acute coronary syndrome. Although strong clinical and angiographic evidence shows that intensive treatment prevents morbidity and saves lives, indications are that clinicians are still waiting too long to treat dyslipidaemia and when treatment is initiated it is often at inadequate dosages. Undertreatment of dyslipidaemia is an issue that the healthcare community can no longer ignore.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12007681
The long term benefit of coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) is limited by development of atherosclerotic disease in the bypass conduits. Percutaneous revascularisation is frequently the preferred method of treated symptomatic saphenous vein graft (SVG) atherosclerotic disease. The immediate and long term results of percutaneous intervention for SVGs is reviewed. Therapeutic considerations as well as novel technical advances are overviewed

Abstract for pubmed ID 12009719
To study the short-term effect of atorvastatin on C-reactive protein (CRP) in patients with or at risk for coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12010563
The use of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) to reduce serum cholesterol is well described. However, the recent finding that statins have direct effects on bone was unexpected. A number of epidemiological studies have recently been published that explore the effects of statins on bone mineral density and risk of fracture in humans. Statins may act by directly stimulating the expression of bone morphogenetic protein-2 and increasing osteoblast differentiation or, like nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates, may have effects on the mevalonate pathway that leads to inhibition of osteoclast activity and osteoblast apoptosis. In addition, the demonstration that statins can inhibit inflammation and encourage angiogenesis offers other possibilities for action.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12014432
Statins may act rapidly to reverse abnormalities of the arterial wall that may predispose to recurrent ischemic events after acute coronary syndromes. Such abnormalities are endothelial dysfunction, a local inflammatory response. and an exaggerated thrombogenic tendency. In one study almost 20,000 patients with first myocardial infarction were studied with regard to statin treatment (28%) or not. Baseline characteristics were adjusted using multivariate regression analysis including propensity analysis. One year mortality was 3.7/5.0% in statin/not statin groups, respectively, P = 0.001, relative risk 0.75. In another study of more than 20,000 patients, 18% were prescribed statin after an acute coronary syndrome and followed for six months. Propensity analysis was performed in this study as well. Deaths in statin/not statin groups were 1.7/3.5%, P<0.0001, relative risk 0.48. In the Myocardial Ischemia Reduction with Aggressive Cholesterol Lowering (MIRACL), a double-blind randomized, placebo-controlled intervention study, 3086 patient with acute non-Q-wave coronary syndromes were allocated immediately in hospital to receive atorvastatin 80 mg daily or placebo for four months. No lower limit for plasma LDL cholesterol was used. Primary endpoint was time to first occurrence of death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, and worsening angina with objective evidence of ischemia. This was significantly reduced compared to the placebo group by 2.4% (14.8 versus 17.2%, relative risk 0.84, P= 0.048). Atorvastatin also reduced significantly fatal or non-fatal strokes. Possible mechanisms behind these acute beneficial effects are discussed. The studies highlight the importance of treatment with a statin in the early management of acute coronary syndromes and the need to incorporate this therapeutic strategy in national guidelines and treatment recommendations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12015788
The purpose of this study was to evaluate pharmacokinetics and dose proportionality of lovastatin extended-release dosage form (ER-lovastatin) in the dosage levels of 10, 20 and 40 mg in 9 healthy male subjects. Each subject was randomized to receive a single oral dose of ER-lovastatin either 10, 20 or 40 mg in a three-way crossover design with a washout period of 7 days between the treatments. Subjects were served dinner at approximately 5:30 PM followed by dosing at approximately 10:00 PM in each study period. Serial plasma samples were collected up to 48 h after dosing and assayed for lovastatin and its active metabolite lovastatin acid using an LC/MS/MS method. The plasma concentration-time profiles of lovastatin and its active metabolite lovastatin acid exhibited delayed- and extended-release characteristics at each dose. Mean (+/-) values for the C(max) of lovastatin were 1.04+/-0.43, 2.03+/-0.65 and 4.03+/-3.02 ng/ml for the 10, 20 and 40 mg dosage, respectively. The corresponding values for the AUC(0-48 h) of lovastatin were 14.6+/-7.8, 34.1 +/-13.7, and 53.9+/-35.6 ng h/ml. The same tendency was also found for C(max) and AUC(0-48 h) values of lovastatin acid. Results from this study demonstrated as the dose of ER-lovastatin increased from 10 to 40 mg, the C(max) and AUC(0-48 h) values of lovastatin as well as lovastatin acid appeared to increase linearly.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12017224
Atherosclerosis is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). The increased risk of coronary artery disease in patients with type 2 DM is partly due to the lipoprotein abnormalities associated with DM. Dyslipidemia outweighs all other risk factors for cardiovascular disease in adults with type 2 DM. Hypertriglyceridemia and low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol are the most common abnormalities in adults with type 2 DM. These abnormalities may improve, but commonly persist, after optimal glycemic control has been achieved. Children with type 2 DM also have hypertriglyceridemia, low levels of HDL-, as well as elevated levels of total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels. Screening for dyslipidemia is recommended in children with type 2 DM. Several adult clinical trials that included patients with DM have demonstrated the efficacy of lowering LDL-cholesterol in preventing death from coronary artery disease. Weight loss, changing dietary habits, increasing physical activity, and improving glycemic control are initial approaches to the treatment of hyperlipidemia in children with type 2 DM. When goals are not met, drug therapy should be considered.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12017409
Neural networks have been used in diagnosing and treating many diseases, including the diagnosis of myocardial infarction and insulin dosing in diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12017803
To evaluate the influence of prior medication on mode of presentation and short-term prognosis of acute coronary syndromes (ACS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12018562
The anti-atherosclerotic and vasculoprotective effect of long acting nifedipine (nicardia retard 20) was evaluated on patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). This was a randomised, controlled, prospective clinical trial. A total of 30 patients fulfilling inclusion criteria were divided randomly in 2 groups of 15 each. One group was given long acting nifedipine while other group did not receive long acting nifedipine. The rest of the treatment was similar for both the groups. Clinical and angiographic parameters were evaluated regularly for a period of one year. The group receiving long acting nifedipine showed 20% restenosis as against 33% in group not receiving long acting nifedipine. Thus, from this trial, it can be concluded that long acting nifedipine can reduce the progress of reocclusion and thus demonstrates the anti-atherosclerotic and vasculoprotective action.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12018641
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12018878
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death and disability in industrialized societies, due in large part to the lack of a comprehensive approach to control the risk factors for atherosclerosis. One strategy for reducing an individual's global CVD risk relies on a targeted approach that modifies each of the major independent risk factors prevalent in both symptomatic (secondary prevention) and asymptomatic (primary prevention) patients. These interventions include lipid lowering, smoking cessation, blood pressure control, glycemic control, regular exercise, and the use of various medications. This review offers an evidence-based strategy toward reducing an individual's global risk for CVD by addressing the modifiable, major independent risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12019599
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are effective in several disease states such as congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction, and diabetes. This article reviews the evidence supporting the clinical use, efficacy, and cost effectiveness of ACE inhibitors in these various disease states. With the findings of the Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation trial, these agents may now have a positive impact on the primary prevention of coronary artery disease. New and ongoing trials will provide more information about the role of ACE inhibitors in coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12020174
Recently, studies have attempted to explore the interaction between ACE inhibitors and aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) when both drugs are used concomitantly to reduce mortality in patients with coronary artery disease. Results have been conflicting due, in part, to sub-optimal methods used to explore this interaction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12020249
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12020481
Hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) are of proven clinical benefit in coronary heart disease, at least in those patients who do not have overt chronic heart failure (CHF). However, as there have been no prospective clinical trials of statins in CHF patients, the question arises as to whether the benefits observed in the absence of CHF can be necessarily inferred in those patients in whom CHF is established. In this review, the evidence base stating support of the use of statins in CHF is presented, as well as theoretical considerations as to why these agents may not necessarily be of benefit in this setting. The beneficial potential of statins clearly relates to their plaque stabilization properties and associated improvements in endothelial function, which together should reduce the risk of further infarction and, perhaps, the ischemic burden on the failing ventricle. Furthermore, these agents may have beneficial effects independent of lipid lowering. These include actions on neoangiogenesis, downregulation of AT(1) receptors, inhibition of proinflammatory cytokine activity and favorable modulation of the autonomic nervous system. The potential adverse effects of statins in CHF include reduction in levels of coenzyme Q10 (which may further exacerbate oxidative stress in CHF) and loss of the protection that lipoproteins may provide through binding and detoxifying endotoxins entering the circulation via the gut. In support of these possibilities are epidemiologic data linking a lower serum cholesterol with a poorer prognosis in CHF. These uncertainties indicate the need for a definitive outcome trial to assess the efficacy and safety of statins in CHF, despite their current widespread, non-evidence based use in this population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12020548
Survival plots of time-to-event data are a key component for reporting results of many clinical trials (and cohort studies). However, mistakes and distortions often arise in the display and interpretation of survival plots. This article aims to highlight such pitfalls and provide recommendations for future practice. Findings are illustrated by topical examples and also based on a survey of recent clinical trial publications in four major journals. Specific issues are: should plots go up or down (we recommend up), how far in time to extend the plot, showing the extent of follow-up, displaying statistical uncertainty by including SEs or CIS, and exercising caution when interpreting the shape of plots and the time-pattern of treatment difference.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12021218
Therapeutic decisions regarding pharmacological therapy should be based on safety and tolerability as well as efficacy data. Clinical trials designed to assess efficacy are often insufficiently powered to generate reliable safety data.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12021938
Stroke prevention is a crucial issue because (i) stroke is a frequent and severe disorder, and (ii) acute stroke therapies that are effective at the individual level have only a little impact in term of public health. Stroke prevention consists of the combination of 3 strategies: an optimal management of vascular risk factors, associated when appropriate with antithrombotic therapies, carotid surgery, or both. Primary prevention trials have shown that reducing blood pressure in hypertensive subjects reduces their vascular risk, including stroke. The association of perindopril plus indapamide reduces the vascular risk in patients who have had a stroke or TIA during the last 5 years, irrespective of their baseline blood pressure. Lowering serum cholesterol with statins or gemfibrozil in patients with hypercholesterolemia or coronary heart disease (CHD), reduces the risk of stroke. However, no trial of cholesterol-lowering therapy has been completed in stroke patients. A strict control of high cholesterol levels should be encouraged, because of benefits in terms of CHD. Statins should be prescribed for stroke patients with CHD, or increased cholesterol levels. Cigarette smoking is associated with an increased risk of stroke and should be avoided. Careful control of all risk factors, especially arterial hypertension in type 1 and type 2 diabetics is recommended, together with a strict glycemic control to reduce systemic microvascular complications. Estrogens prescribed in hormone replacement or oral contraceptive therapies are not recommended after an ischemic stroke. It is also recommended to reduce alcohol consumption and obesity, and to increase physical activity in patients at risk for first-ever or recurrent stroke. An optimal management of risk factors for stroke is crucial to reduce the risks of first-ever stroke, recurrent stroke, any vascular event after stroke and vascular death. One of the major public health issues for the coming years will be to focus more on risk factor recognition and management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12022381
In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled trial in centers that use a conservative approach to acute coronary syndromes, the antiplatelet drug clopidogrel (Plavix) decreased the rate of the combined end point of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or stroke by 20% in patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation. The benefit was at the cost of an increase in bleeding, however. This strategy may need to be tailored in centers that use a more aggressive treatment strategy of early angiography and revascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12024336
Hemostasis involves a carefully regulated balance between circulating and endothelium-derived prothrombotic and antithrombotic factors. The unstable or vulnerable plaque facilitates thrombosis, clinically manifest as an acute coronary syndrome (ACS), by creating an environment that favors thrombus formation over prevention of lysis. Endothelial cell dysfunction is integral to both the development of the atherosclerotic lesion as well as its destabilization. The transformation of a stable plaque to an unstable one involves complex interactions among T lymphocytes, macrophages, endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells. Degradation of the fibrous cap of the atherosclerotic lesion as well as the overexpression of prothrombotic and underexpression of antithrombotic factors by cells within the plaque precede thrombus formation. Accordingly, pharmacological interventions for the treatment of ACS are directed against the initiation and propagation of thrombosis, as well as toward improvement of endothelial function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12027926
Intensive management of risk parameters in diabetic patients may retard the progression of both micro- and macrovascular complications. Intensified care requires expert staff and is expensive. The aim of the present study was to examine whether sharing the therapeutic responsibility with the patients will improve the outcome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12027977
There is growing interest in the role of matrix metalloproteinases in atherosclerosis. Excessive tissue remodelling and increased matrix metalloproteinase activity have been demonstrated during atherosclerotic plaque disruption, a frequent predeterminant of ischaemic cardiac events and stroke. These enzymes represent a potential target for therapeutic intervention to modify vascular pathology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12028227
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12028504
Studies have suggested that raising low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) may be an important target for the prevention of coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12028507
Considerable variability exists in the plasma lipid and lipoprotein response to statin treatment due, in part, to genetic factors. The gene for apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is polymorphic and the different genotypes modulate baseline lipid levels. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effect of the apoE genotype on the lipoprotein response to pravastatin treatment in an outpatient population followed-up in several different clinics across Spain. Subjects and methods. Subjects (n=401; 56% female; mean age 57 years), who were hypercholesterolaemic despite a diet poor in saturated fat and cholesterol, were treated according to NCEP-ATP II guidelines. Plasma lipids and lipoproteins were measured centrally before and after 16 weeks of treatment with 20 mg day-1 of pravastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12028600
In an observational prospective study of 1,410 patients (mean age, 81 +/- 9 years) with prior myocardial infarction, no contraindications to aspirin, and a serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level of 125 mg/dL or higher, 832 (59%) were treated with aspirin. At the 36-month follow-up evaluation, the incidence of new coronary events was 52% in persons treated with aspirin versus 70% in those who were not treated with aspirin (P < 0.0001). The stepwise Cox regression model showed that significant independent predictors of new coronary events were age (risk ratio, 1.05 for each 1-year increase), current cigarette smoking (risk ratio, 2.7), hypertension (risk ratio, 1.7), diabetes mellitus (risk ratio, 2.2), initial serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level (risk ratio, 1.01 for each 1-mg/dL increase), initial serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level (risk ratio, 0.96 for each 1-mg/dL increase), use of statins (risk ratio, 0.46), and use of aspirin (risk ratio, 0.48).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12029003
Chronic low-grade inflammation may contribute to the increased risk of atherosclerosis in visceral obesity. Statin and fish oil have been reported to have antiinflammatory effects. We studied whether dyslipidemic, obese individuals have increased plasma high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) concentrations and whether treatment with atorvastatin and fish oil lowered plasma hs-CRP concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12029990
Recently, three large-scale clinical studies on hypercholesterolemia have been reported in Japan. The Kyushu Lipid Intervention Study(KLIS) was initiated investigate the effect of pravastatin, as compared with conventional hypolipidemic treatment, in the primary prevention of not only coronary events but also cerebral infarction in Japanese men with serum total cholesterol levels of 220 mg/dl or greater. A total of 5,640 patients were recruited. Adjusted relative risks of outcomes combined coronary events and cerebral infarction for pravastatin versus conventional treatment was 0.81(p = 0.08). The Pravastatin Anti-atherosclerosis Trial in the Elderly(PATE) is a prospective randomized controlled trial to determine the effectiveness of pravastatin on the incidence of cardiovascular events by comparing the effect of low dose(group L, 5 mg/day, n = 334) with the standard dose(group S, 10-20 mg/day, n = 331) in elderly patients aged more than 60 years old. The risk ratio for group S compared with group L was 0.674(95% confidence interval: 0.423-1.074). The Japan Lipid Intervention Trial(J-LIT) is the first nation-wide study conducted to determine a relationship between serum lipid concentrations and the development of CHD under simvastatin treatment. The J-LIT study enrolled 52,421 men and women with total cholesterol(TC) more than 220 mg/dl. Patients were treated with open-labeled simvastatin at a dose of 5 to 10 mg/day for 6 years. Simvastatin reduced serum concentrations of TC, LDL-C and TG by 18.4, 26.8 and 16.1%, respectively. LDL-C positively correlated with the CHD events and the relative risk of CHD was higher significantly more than 160 mg/dl of LDL-C.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12031698
Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) is a common condition often associated with cardiovascular risk factors and events. With the aid of B-mode ultrasound scanning, evidence is emerging that these risk factors and events are significantly related to an increased carotid and femoral intima-media thickness (IMT). More importantly, treatment of these risk factors is associated with a decrease or a diminished progression of the IMT, paralleled by a reduction in cardiovascular events and an improvement in the symptoms associated with PVD. This evidence is particularly strong for lipid lowering therapy. Additional predictors of cardiovascular risk like the IMT, could now influence the decision to intervene with medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12031729
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12031735
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12031821
The study was aimed to investigate the effect of two different statins on the levels of haemostatic variables reflecting procoagulant and fibrinolytic activity in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD), with the hypothesis that statins might beneficially modify these levels. Fifty-eight patients were randomized to treatment with atorvastatin (n=28) or simvastatin (n=30) for 1 year. The starting dose in both groups was 20 mg/day. Fasting blood samples were collected before and after 12-month treatment for determinations of fibrinogen, prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F1+2), plasma D-dimer, soluble tissue factor, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) antigen, tPA activity, plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 activity (PAI-1 activity) and serum D-dimer as a global test of fibrinolytic activity. In the total population, improved fibrinolytic activity was observed after 1 year with increased levels of serum D-dimer (P=.001) and tPA activity (P=.024) and a reduction in tPA antigen (P=.048). No statistically significant changes were observed in any of the measured coagulation variables. Separately examined, an improved fibrinolytic profile was seen in the atorvastatin group with a significant increase in serum D-dimer (P=.005), a borderline increase in tPA activity (P=.083) and a borderline reduction in tPA antigen (P=.069). Within the simvastatin group, a reduction in prothrombin F1+2 was observed (P=.038). The differences in changes between the groups were statistically significant only for global fibrinolysis (serum D-dimer, P=.046). In conclusion, an improved fibrinolytic profile was observed after statin treatment, most pronounced with atorvastatin. The results indicate that the drugs promote a profibrinolytic profile, and may in part explain the benefit of statin treatment rendered in the prevention of CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12031849
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) are cholesterol-lowering drugs and reduce the risk of myocardial infarction and stroke. In this study we investigated whether rosuvastatin, a new, potent HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, upregulates endothelial nitric oxide (NO) expression and activity and protects from cerebral ischaemia in mice. Endothelial cells in culture and 129/SV mice were chronically treated with rosuvastatin. The expression and activity of endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) was determined by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blotting and arginine-citrulline assays. Cerebral ischaemia was induced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAo) for 2 h and infarct size was determined after 22 h of reperfusion. Treatment of endothelial cells with rosuvastatin concentration- and time-dependently upregulated eNOS mRNA and protein expression. In aortas of 129/SV wild-type mice, treatment with 0.2, 2, and 20 mg kg(-1) rosuvastatin subcutaneously (s.c.) for 10 days significantly upregulated eNOS mRNA by 50, 142, and 205%, respectively. NOS activity was significantly increased by 75, 145, and 320%, respectively. Stroke volume after 2-h MCAo was reduced by 27, 56, and 50% (for 0.2, 2 and 20 mg kg(-1), respectively). Serum cholesterol and triglygeride levels were not significantly lowered by the treatment. The novel HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor rosuvastatin dose-dependently upregulates eNOS expression and activity and protects from cerebral ischaemia in mice. The effects are independent of changes in cholesterol levels and are equivalent or even superior to the protective effects by simvastatin and atorvastatin in this animal model.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12032266
We sought to determine whether a low-dose combination of a bile acid-binding resin (colestipol) with an hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA reductase inhibitor (pravastatin) would result in improved acceptability, compliance, and effectiveness in lipid-lowering compared with conventional therapy with a higher dose of a bile acid-binding resin only, with fewer side effects. We performed a randomized, crossover open-label clinical trial with two 18-wk medication regimens separated by an 8-wk washout period in 36 children and adolescents with familial hypercholesterolemia or familial combined hyperlipidemia. The regimens included colestipol 10 g/d (10 pills) versus a combination of colestipol 5 g/d with pravastatin 10 mg/d (six pills). All patients were maintained on a fat-reduced diet. Acceptability was better with the combination regimen. Mean compliance was similar and suboptimal (approximately 60%) with all medication components. Mean relative LDL cholesterol lowering was significantly better with the combination regimen (-17 +/- 16% versus -10 +/- 13%; p = 0.045), although insufficient to achieve recommended target values in the majority of patients on either regimen. Both regimens were equally free of adverse effects, with no important effect on chemistry or hematologic values. Patient-reported adverse effects were more common with the conventional-dose colestipol-only regimen. Compliance with medication regimens using the bile acid-binding resins is suboptimal, although combination with a low dose of a statin may result in better lipid lowering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12032397
Membrane-dependent coagulation processes play a key role in acute coronary syndromes (ACS), where the generation of thrombin depends on the complex of activated factors X and V (prothrombinase complex) assembled on activated platelets. The aim of the present study was to evaluate prothrombinase activity in patients with ACS and to examine the effect of treatment with 80 mg/day atorvastatin on prothrombinase activity. Blood samples were obtained at admission from 22 patients with ACS, and then again at 2 weeks and at 16 weeks after double-blind randomization to either placebo or atorvastatin. Prothrombinase activity was evaluated by measuring the generation of thrombin by in vitro reconstructed thrombi, and also by measuring plasma levels of prothrombin fragment F1 + 2. Twenty age-matched subjects with stable angina and 11 without coronary disease were used as controls. At admission, prothrombinase activity and F1 + 2 were significantly higher in ACS patients than in controls. Prothrombinase activity was still high at 2 weeks while it returned to normal levels at 16 weeks. F1 + 2 remained high both at 2 and at 16 weeks. Our data indicate that prothrombinase activity is high in patients with ACS, and that it is not affected by high-dose atorvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12034651
Patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) have a high incidence of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality from premature atherosclerosis, and the efficacy of pharmacological therapy has been limited. We evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of ezetimibe, a novel cholesterol absorption inhibitor, in a multicenter, double-blind, randomized trial of HoFH patients receiving atorvastatin or simvastatin. Methods and Results- Fifty patients with a diagnosis of HoFH on the National Cholesterol Education Program Step 1 or stricter diet and taking open-label atorvastatin 40 mg/d or simvastatin 40 mg/d (statin-40) with (n=25) or without (n=25) concomitant LDL apheresis were randomized to 1 of 3 double-blind treatments: atorvastatin or simvastatin 80 mg/d (statin-80, n=17); ezetimibe 10 mg/d plus atorvastatin or simvastatin 40 mg/d (n=16); or ezetimibe 10 mg/d plus atorvastatin or simvastatin 80 mg/d (n=17) for 12 weeks. The primary end point was mean percentage change in LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) from statin-40 baseline to the end point for patients receiving statins alone (statin-80) versus patients receiving ezetimibe plus atorvastatin or simvastatin at either dose (ezetimibe plus statin-40/80). Ezetimibe plus statin-40/80 significantly reduced LDL-C levels compared with statin-80 (-20.7% versus -6.7%, P=0.007). In the high-dose statin cohorts, ezetimibe plus statin-80 reduced LDL-C by an additional 20.5% (P=0.0001) versus statin-80. Similar significant reductions in LDL-C concentrations were observed for patients with genotype-confirmed HoFH (n=35). Ezetimibe was safe and well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12035870
Hypertensive patients who are at high risk of developing cardiovascular (CV) complications have become the focus of modern treatment guidelines. The choice of antihypertensive therapies in these patients should be evidence-based: in particular, there should be evidence of a beneficial impact on CV events in addition to blood pressure-lowering effects. The International Nifedipine GITS study: Intervention as a Goal in Hypertension Treatment (INSIGHT) is the first, large, randomized, double-blind study undertaken exclusively in high-risk hypertensive patients, with CV events as a prospectively defined primary end-point. The choice of a diuretic (co-amilozide) as a comparator reflects the fact that this group of antihypertensive drugs has been shown to reduce CV events in high-risk hypertensive patients. Nifedipine, administered in a long-acting gastrointestinal-transport-system (GITS) formulation, and co amilozide were equally effective in preventing overall CV or cerebrovascular complications. This finding extended to the subgroup of patients with diabetes at baseline. Substudies to INSIGHT showed that, compared with coamilozide, nifedipine GITS was significantly more effective at preventing an increase in intima-media thickness in the carotid artery and significantly slowed the progression of coronary calcification. The results from INSIGHT support incorporating nifedipine GITS in the management of high-risk hypertensive patients to prevent atherosclerosis-related illness and death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12036426
Drugs that lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol through their actions in the gastrointestinal tract have been used for > 30 years. Bile acid sequestrants have very excellent safety profiles but their poor tolerability means they have limited clinical use. Recently developed new compounds are better tolerated in clinical trials and show greater benefit in reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level, as compared to "older" sequestrants. Cholesterol absorption inhibitors and bile acid transporter inhibitors have recently been reported to show clinical efficacy and safety as novel gut-acting drugs for lowering cholesterol. Further advances in our understanding of the cholesterol absorption mechanism will provide novel therapeutic targets, such as the ATP-binding cassette transporter. This approach in the treatment of lowering cholesterol appears to play a more significant role in the clinical field of atherosclerotic vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12036521
Despite the widespread use of coronary stents, prevention of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) remains a major challenge. The restenotic process is even higher after balloon angioplasty without stenting and has been shown to be in the range of 30-50%. Experimental data suggest that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors ("statins") might have a beneficial effect on restenosis after coronary angioplasty. Proposed mechanisms include favorable effects on plasma lipoproteins, endothelial function, plaque architecture and stability, thrombosis and inflammation. Although statins have documented efficacy in reducing clinical events and angiographic disease progression in patients with coronary atherosclerosis, the results of subsequent large prospective clinical trials using different types of statins clearly demonstrate that statins do not have a short-to-medium term effect on prevention of restenosis after successful conventional PTCA. The underlying pathological reasons for this shortcoming as well as promising innovative approaches including gene therapy and local drug delivery of vasoactive substances will be discussed in this review.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12036525
To delineate the natural history of left ventricular remodelling following large anterior myocardial infarction (MI), in the era of aggressive medical therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12038594
Atherosclerotic heart disease and osteoporosis are both diseases of old age. Evidence is accumulating for a link between vascular and bone disease. Calcification is a common feature of atherosclerotic plaques, and osteoporosis is associated with both atherosclerosis and vascular calcification. However, the relationship of vascular calcification to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis remains incompletely understood. Hormone replacement therapy has beneficial effects in the prevention of both atherosclerosis and osteoporosis. Bisphosphonates inhibit bone resorption and are used in the treatment of osteoporosis, whereas the statins inhibit cholesterol biosynthesis and are used for the treatment of atherosclerosis. We have reviewed recent advances in the knowledge of the actions of bisphosphonates and statins at the cellular, molecular and end-organ levels in order to examine the relationship between cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis and to explore the link between lipids and bones. These studies suggest that the mechanism of actions of these two classes of drugs at the cellular level may not be mutually exclusive. There are some early clinical data to complement these findings, suggesting that statins increase bone density and bisphosphonates may have a beneficial effect in vivo on plasma lipid levels and on the atherosclerotic process. Properly designed prospective studies that examine the effect of statins on bone density and fractures, as well as the effects of bisphosphonates on lipid profiles, atherosclerotic progression and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality are needed to define clearly the clinical effects and potential new roles for these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12039487
We sought to determine whether inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase with pravastatin affects transforming growth factor-beta(1) (TGF-beta(1)) circulating levels and its production in the monocytes of hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12039998
Clinical trials with statins have demonstrated a marked reduction of cardiovascular mortality. However, it remains controversial whether these clinical benefits stem from powerful cholesterol-lowering effects of statins or whether they are due in part to their cholesterol-independent effects on vascular function, plaque growth, plaque rupture, or thrombosis. The identification of several mechanisms through which statins decrease the recruitment of monocytes and T cells into the arterial wall and inhibit T cell activation and proliferation in vitro have prompted speculations that immunomodulatory effects of statins may be beneficial in recipients of organ transplants. Hypercholesterolemia is frequent in these patients, and delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions in the arterial walls of the graft may be compounded by chronic inflammation associated with conventional atherogenesis. To assess the potential clinical relevance of immunomodulatory effects of statins, the role of the immune system in atherogenesis and the effects of statins in vitro in experimental models and in clinical trials will be reviewed. It is concluded that despite solid in vitro evidence, clinical evidence for an independent immunosuppressive effect of statins in organ transplant patients is presently insufficient; however, further investigation of their in vivo occurrence and clinical relevance is warranted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12040732
The pharmacology, pharmacodynamics, clinical efficacy, drug interactions, adverse effects, and dosage and administration of colesevelam hydrochloride are reviewed. Colesevelam hydrochloride is a nonabsorbed lipid-lowering agent approved for use alone or in combination with hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors for the reduction of low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. Colesevelam forms nonabsorbable complexes with bile acids in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, resulting in changes in plasma lipid levels, including total, LDL, and high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides. Colesevelam has been reported to be four to six times as potent as traditional bile acid sequestrants (BASs), perhaps because of its greater binding affinity for glycocholic acid. Unlike cholestyramine and colestipol, colesevelam appears to reduce LDL cholesterol in a dose-dependent manner. In clinical trials, colesevelam demonstrated efficacy either alone or in combination with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in the treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia. Combination therapy appeared to be more effective than monotherapy. Although infection, headache, and GI adverse effects have been reported for colesevelam, the rates do not differ significantly from those occurring with placebo. The constipation that typically hinders compliance with traditional BASs is minimal. In one study, the rate of compliance with colesevelam was 93%. There is little evidence of clinically significant interactions involving colesevelam. The maintenance dosage is three 625-mg tablets twice daily or six tablets once daily, taken with meals. Colesevelam provides an effective alternative to cholestyramine and colestipol while offering the potential for fewer adverse effects and better compliance. Studies are needed to directly compare colesevelam with traditional BASs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12040967
Pitavastatin (CAS 147526-32-7, NK-104), the first totally synthetic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor discovered in Japan, was examined. Pitavastatin significantly decreased the serum levels of total cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) at doses of 1 mg/day or more, and significant dose-dependence of the effect of this drug was observed within the dose range from 1 mg/day to 4 mg/day. It also significantly decreased the serum levels of triglycerides (TG) within this dose range. There was no dose-dependence of the incidence of adverse reactions to pitavastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12043936
We studied a group of 28 obese subjects (mean age 38.2+/-13.5 years, body mass index 35.0+/-5.6 kg/m2) with insulin resistance demonstrated employing an euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp, subdivided into a subgroup with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) and a subgroup with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). We examined the polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) membrane fluidity at baseline and after activation with 4-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) or N-formyl-methionyl-leucylphenylalanine (fMLP). At baseline, PMN membrane fluidity was significantly decreased in both subgroups compared to normals. In obese subjects with NGT no correlation was found between this PMN determinant and the parameters reflecting the insulin-resistance degree (glucose disposal [M] and metabolic clearance rate of glucose [MCR]), while in type 2 DM subjects the PMN membrane fluidity was correlated to M and MCR. After activation with PMA and fMLP, no variation in PMN membrane fluidity was observed in normals, while in obese subjects with NGT an early decrease was present only after fMLP activation, and in obese subjects with type 2 DM there was a constant and significant decrease of this PMN parameter after activation with PMA and fMLP. Our interest in the study of the PMN membrane fluidity emerges from its known role in PMN function, especially considering that PMN cells, together with monocytes, may be mediators of vascular damage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12044582
The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG)-CoA reductase inhibitors or statins are potent inhibitors of cholesterol synthesis. Several large clinical trials have demonstrated that these agents reduce serum cholesterol levels and the incidence of cardiovascular diseases. However, overlap and meta-analyses of these clinical trials suggest that the beneficial effects of statins may extend beyond their effects on serum cholesterol levels. Because statins also inhibit the synthesis of isoprenoid intermediates in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway, they may have pleiotropic effects on the vascular wall. In particular, the ability of statins to decrease the incidence of ischemic stroke highlights some of their non-cholesterol effects since serum cholesterol levels are poorly correlated with the risk for ischemic stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12044585
Exaggerated postprandial hyperlipidemia has been associated with cardiovascular disease. The mechanisms underlying this association are likely to depend on a multitude of effects. Potentially atherogenic remnants of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRL) accumulate in the postprandial state. In addition, TRL may promote the formation of small dense LDL. There are some indications that the postprandial period is a hypercoagulable state and endothelial function seems to be hampered after acute fat intake. Conventional lipid lowering drugs such as statins and fibrates have the potency of reducing postprandial hyperlipidemia, but the fibrates seem to be more effective in this respect. There is a complete lack of prospective studies linking inefficient postprandial lipid metabolism with clinical endpoints and there is also a need to include investigations of postprandial lipid metabolism in the evaluation of novel drugs affecting lipid metabolism and insulin resistance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12044587
Evidence based treatment of cardiovascular risk factors on outcome in women is still inconclusive given the very large numbers needed to achieve a significant difference in cardiovascular event. Although numerous studies of the effect of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on risk factors have suggested benefit, the only data from a randomised control trial of HRT in secondary prevention was neutral. Coronary disease-primary prevention: (a) Statins: Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study (AFCAPS/TEX CAPS). The only randomised controlled trial (RCT) to include women. There were fewer coronary heart disease (CHD) events in women but no difference in mortality. (b) HRT: no completed RCT-the results from Womens Health Initiative (WHI) and Women Intervention Study of Long Duration of Oestrogen in the Menopause (WISDOM) are awaited, the former likely to complete in 2004. There are numerous reports of positive observational epidemiological studies for HRT. There is little evidence for statin use in women who will probably not qualify for treatment on global CHD risk assessment, familial hypercholesterolemia and type 2 diabetes excepted. HRT is, therefore, not only appropriate for its multiple effects on lipoproteins, vascular function and insulin sensitivity but also for prevention of osteoporosis. Coronary disease-

Abstract for pubmed ID 12045159
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12045375
Controlled clinical trials in cardiovascular disease are the cornerstone for therapeutic advances in this field of medicine. Since the introduction of the concept of controlled clinical trials there has been substantial progress in the design, conduct, and analysis of such studies. A growing awareness of ethical issues emerging from such trials has heightened public awareness, increased investigator scrutiny, and reinforced the need for interim data analysis. A benefit of such interim analyses is that either an entire clinical trial or a specific treatment limb can be stopped if the observed findings argue for premature termination. For example, highly positive findings, as were noted in the HOPE Study (Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation), led to its being stopped after 4.5 years of treatment, which was 1 year early. Alternatively, the doxazosin treatment limb of the ALLHAT (Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial) and the amlodipine treatment limb of AASK (African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension) were stopped early because of negative findings with each respectively. Finally, economic considerations can enter into the decision to close a study early as was the case in the CONVINCE (Controlled Onset Verapamil Investigation of Cardiovascular End Points) trial. Most such decisions rely heavily on information obtained from independent data and safety monitoring boards. Such boards ensure patient safety by providing an unbiased ongoing review of data, which would otherwise be unavailable until a study's completion. Early termination of a clinical trial can have important clinical implications and, in particular, can redirect patterns of clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12046033
A 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor is recommended in hemodialysis (HD) patients with hypercholesterolemia to improve their lipid profiles. We evaluated effects of simvastatin on markers for inflammation, oxidative stress, and coagulation in HD patients. Sixty-two maintenance HD patients with serum cholesterol levels of 200 mg/dL or greater were randomly assigned to the treatment group (n = 31; 8 men, 23 women; age, 63 +/- 11 years) and administered simvastatin, 20 mg/d, for 8 weeks or to the control group (n = 31; 10 men, 21 women; age, 60 +/- 12 years). We measured cholesterol, albumin, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), malondialdehyde (MDA; an index of lipid peroxidation), and D-dimer (a marker of intravascular coagulation) in blood at baseline and again at 8 weeks. Fifty-eight of 62 patients completed the study. In the control group, total cholesterol, serum albumin, hs-CRP, MDA, and D-dimer levels did not change. In the treatment group, simvastatin administration for 8 weeks significantly reduced total cholesterol levels from 232 +/- 25 to 165 +/- 39 mg/dL (P < 0.001) and hs-CRP levels from a median of 0.23 mg/dL (range, 0.05 to 1.63 mg/dL) to 0.12 mg/dL (range, <0.006 to 1.45 mg/dL; P < 0.01), whereas it increased serum albumin levels from 3.4 +/- 0.3 to 3.6 +/- 0.4 g/dL (P < 0.001). Administration of simvastatin did not affect MDA and D-dimer levels. These results suggest that in addition to the lipid-lowering effect, simvastatin had an antiinflammatory effect in HD patients. Considering that atherosclerosis is inflammation of the vascular wall, simvastatin may have a beneficial effect on cardiovascular disease, in part because it alleviates inflammation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12047796
Cardiologists have traditionally focused on coronary narrowing as seen on angiography and have orientated treatment towards bypassing these lesions or widening them with angioplasty. In patients with stable coronary artery disease, percutaneous coronary interventions reliably relieve angina and myocardial ischemia, but do not prevent myocardial infarction or reduce mortality. Cholesterol lowering therapy has been shown, in several large, randomized trials reported over the past decade, to reduce mortality and coronary events, including the need for revascularization in a broad spectrum of patients. Mechanical and metabolic treatments for coronary disease should be used synergistically.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12048120
Monocytes and macrophages synthesize tissue factor (TF) which plays a role in thrombogenicity in coronary artery disease. This study was conducted to investigate the effect of Rho/Rho-kinase inhibition on the synthesis of TF in cultured human monocytes. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins), C3 exoenzyme and Rho-kinase inhibitors were added to isolated peripheral blood monocytes and the synthesis of TF was assessed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Rho activity was determined by measuring the GTP-bound form of Rho A. Cerivastatin and pravastatin reduced the levels of TF antigen and mRNA. The suppressive effect of statins on TF synthesis was reversed by geranylgeranylpyrophosphate (GGPP) and the restoring effect of GGPP was eliminated by C3 exoenzyme and Y-27632. Pravastatin decreased the activity of Rho A, suggesting that the suppression of TF synthesis by statins is mediated via inhibition of the geranylgeranylation of Rho. Moreover, inhibition of Rho and Rho-kinase downregulated the synthesis of TF. Our results suggest that Rho/Rho-kinase signaling is involved in the synthesis of TF in human monocytes and that inhibition of Rho/Rho-kinase may be useful for treating thrombogenicity in coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12048134
The clinical efficacy and safety of pitavastatin (NK-104), a novel HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, during long-term treatment, were examined in 25 patients (male/female=11/14, mean age=53+/-13 (mean+/-SD) years) with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). After a period on placebo of >4 weeks, 2 mg/day of pitavastatin was administered for 8 weeks, and the dose was increased to 4 mg/day for up to 104 weeks. Total cholesterol (TC) decreased by 31% from the initial value of 340+/-57 to 237+/-40 mg/dl (P<0.0001) at week 8. During treatment with the higher dose, TC decreased even further to 212+/-35 mg/dl at week 12; it decreased by 37% from the initial value (P<0.0001). Similarly, the baseline low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (LDL-C) decreased by 41% at week 8, and by 49% at week 12, from 267+/-61 mg/dl at baseline. These findings indicate a dose-dependent effect of the drug on TC and LDL-C concentrations. To examine whether the levels of circulating matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their endogenous inhibitors (tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases: TIMPs) are altered during lipid-lowering therapy, we also measured their plasma levels. The mean levels of MMP-2 and -3 were significantly increased. No significant alteration was found in MMP-9, TIMP-1 and -2 levels. As for the safety of pitavastatin, adverse reactions were observed in one case (4%) of subjective and objective symptoms. The effects of pitavastatin on TC and LDL-C were stable during long treatment of patients with heterozygous FH.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12048142
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12052144
Cardiomyopathies are diseases of the myocardium associated with cardiac dysfunction, and are classified as dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), hypertropic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and restrictive cardiomyopathy. Heart failure and sudden death are the two major complications. Also, since DCM is the primary indication for heart transplantation and HCM the primary cause of sudden death in young athletes, the socioeconomic impact of these diseases is important. Recently, the role of the genetic background in both monogenic and multifactorial cardiomyopathies has been studied, which has led to a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms that promote the development and progression of these diseases. Preliminary data suggest interactions between pharmacological treatment and genetic polymorphisms, which appear to be the first steps towards the application of pharmacogenetics in heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12052268
This review examines the use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) medications early in the clinical course of acute coronary syndrome. Available data demonstrate that there are clear clinical benefits to this practice. Numerous previous studies have documented the primary and secondary benefits of statins in the prevention of coronary events. Recent trials show that when statins are used during hospital admissions for acute coronary syndrome (ACS), patients experience decreased recurrent myocardial infarction, lower death rates, and fewer repeat hospitalizations for ischemia or revascularization. Several studies suggest that the positive effects of statins on plaque stabilization, inflammation, thrombosis, and endothelial function may be independent of lipid levels. There is also an emerging view that beneficial lipid-lowering with statins in high-risk patients has no lower limit. This information suggests that all patients admitted for ACS should be treated with statins, regardless of cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12052271
Despite the significant advances made in the treatment of acute coronary syndromes (ACS) with antiplatelet and antithrombotic therapy, the risk of serious complications remains high, especially in the first few months following an acute coronary event. Although lipid-lowering therapy in patients with significant risk factors (primary prevention) or stable coronary disease (secondary prevention) is known to improve long-term survival, patients with a recent ACS were specifically excluded from the early statin trials. However, the use of lipid-lowering agents (principally statins) during hospitalization or in the period immediately following an acute coronary event has recently been studied. Statin therapy in this setting has been shown to reduce angina, rehospitalization, and mortality. Improved outcomes associated with lipid-lowering therapy in ACS may be mediated through beneficial effects on plaque stabilization, endothelial function, inflammation, and thrombus formation. This paper reviews the evidence supporting the potential benefits and mechanisms of statin therapy in the management of ACS. Clinical guidelines to achieve optimal lipid management are also discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12052282
The efficacy of lipid disorder therapy for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease is established. There are, however, no completed studies specifically directed at reducing the risk of stroke with lipid therapy. Although observational cohort studies have failed to demonstrate an association between lipid disorders and stroke incidence, recently completed trials of subjects at risk for coronary heart disease have shown that statins and fibric acid derivatives reduce not only the risk of myocardial infarction and death, but also that of brain infarction and transient ischemic attacks. Lipid drugs are well tolerated and treatment complications are relatively low. It seems prudent to conclude that the stroke patient with an undesirable lipid profile who has a history of coronary heart disease should receive specific treatment for the lipid disorder. Recommendations are more problematic for stroke patients with lipid disorders but no history of coronary heart disease; most should receive therapy for primary prevention of heart disease. Lipid treatment trials focused on stroke risk reduction are urgently needed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12052467
Coronary artery disease is among the leading causes of death worldwide. Clinical trials show a protective effect of statins against the sequelae of coronary artery disease. The mean risk reductions for subjects using statins compared with placebo found in these trials is about 30%. These are average reductions for all patients included in the trials. Important factors in interpreting the variability in the outcome of drug therapy include the patient's health profile, prognosis, disease severity, quality of drug prescribing, compliance with prescribed pharmacotherapy and the genetic profile of the patient. This review aims to give an overview of the known polymorphisms (Cholesteryl Ester Transfer Protein polymorphism, Stromelysin-1 polymorphism, -455G/A and TaqI polymorphisms of the beta-fibrinogen gene, apoE4, Asp(9)Asn mutation in the lipoprotein lipase gene, the -514 CT polymorphism in the hepatic lipase gene and the ACE deletion type gene) that have an influence on the effects of statins in the general population. The expectation is that in the future a subject's genotype may determine whether he will be treated with statins or not. Determining the genotype will not deny therapy to a subject, but will help in deciding the therapy that will suit the patient best.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12052475
Type IIB hyperlipidemia is associated with premature vascular disease, an atherogenic lipoprotein phenotype characterised by elevated levels of triglyceride-rich VLDL and small dense LDL, together with subnormal levels of HDL. The dose-dependent and independent effects of a potent HMGCoA reductase inhibitor, Atorvastatin, at daily doses of 10 and 40 mg, were evaluated on triglyceride-rich lipoprotein subclasses (VLDL-1, VLDL-2 and IDL), on the major LDL subclasses (light LDL, LDL-1+LDL-2, D: 1.019-1.029 g/ml; intermediate LDL, LDL-3, D: 1.029-1.039 g/ml and small dense LDL, LDL-4+LDL+5, D: 1.039-1.063 g/ml), on CETP-mediated cholesteryl ester transfer from HDL to apoB-containing lipoproteins, on phospholipid transfer protein activity and on plasma-mediated cellular cholesterol efflux in patients (n=10) displaying type IIB hyperlipidemia. Plasma concentrations of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein subclasses (TRL: VLDL-1, Sf 60-400; VLDL-2, Sf 20-60 and IDL, Sf 12-20) and of LDL (D: 1.019-1.063 g/ml) were markedly diminished after 6 weeks of statin treatment at 10 mg per day (-31 and -36%, respectively; P<0.002) and by 42 and 51%, respectively at the 40 mg per day dose. Increasing doses of atorvastatin progressively normalised both the quantitative and qualitative features of the LDL subclass profile, in which dense LDL predominated at baseline. Indeed, dense LDL levels were reduced by up to 57% at the 40-mg dose, leading to a shift in the peak of the density profile towards larger, buoyant LDL particles typical of normolipidemic subjects. In addition, marked reduction in numbers of apoB100-containing particle acceptors led to a 30% decrease (P<0.02) in CETP-mediated CE transfer from HDL. Finally, a significant dose-dependent statin-mediated elevation (+15% at 10 mg; P=0.0003 and +35% at 40 mg; P<0.0001 compared to baseline) in the capacity of plasma from type IIB subjects to mediate free cholesterol efflux from Fu5AH hepatoma cells was observed. Moreover, atorvastatin (40 mg per day) significantly increased plasma apoAI levels (+24%; P<0.05), thereby suggesting that this statin enhances production of apoAI and with it, formation of nascent pre-beta HDL particles. Plasma PLTP activity was not affected by either dose of atorvastatin. We conclude that increasing the dose of atorvastatin leads to dose-dependent, preferential and progressive reduction in particle numbers of atherogenic VLDL-2, IDL and dense LDL, and concomitantly, to enhanced cellular cholesterol efflux in type IIB dyslipidemia, thereby diminishing the atherosclerotic burden in subjects characterised by high cardiovascular risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12053648
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12054084
Fosamprenavir, a Vertex Pharmaceuticals phosphate ester prodrug of the HIV protease inhibitor amprenavir, is under development by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK; formerly Glaxo Wellcome) for the potential treatment of HIV infection in adults and children. By November 2000, it was in phase III trials; a third phase III trial was initiated in April 2001. In October 2001, GSK expected filing in both the EU and US in 2002. In January 2002, Vertex anticipated an NDA filing during the second half of 2002. Fast-track status for fosamprenavir was received by Glaxo Wellcome in December 1999. As of January 2002, enrollment was complete for two of the three phase III trials, and an NDA was expected to be filed during 2002. Fosamprenavir was first synthesized at Vertex as part of a collaboration with Glaxo Wellcome and by 1999, it was being developed by Glaxo Wellcome as part of an ongoing agreement between the two companies. In September 2000 and January 2001, Merrill Lynch predicted a 2002 launch, with sales of pounds sterling 50 million in 2002, rising to pounds sterling 150 million in 2004.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12054090
Apolipoprotein (apo) A-I, because of its anti-atherogenic properties, represents a powerful approach to the management of vascular diseases. Infusion of apoA-I-containing synthetic high-density lipoprotein (HDL) inhibits atherosclerosis progression or prevents restenosis in experimental animals, and apoA-I liposomes are capable of stimulating reverse cholesterol transport in humans. Moreover, many experimental studies have been conducted with a molecular variant of apoA-I, apoA-I(Milano), characterized by a prolonged residence time in plasma and improved function, which may offer an even better approach to the therapeutic handling of arterial disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12056584
Most studies on the topic have shown that statin therapy decreases plasma LDL levels but not those of lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)]. This specificity of action, although previously noted, has not been systematically investigated. In the current study we approached this problem by monitoring LDL- and Lp(a) cholesterol in 80 hypercholesterolemic subjects with high Lp(a) levels, at entry and 8 mon after initiation of statin therapy. We found that commonly used direct and indirect LDL cholesterol assays gave an LDL cholesterol value that comprised both true LDL- and Lp(a) cholesterol. We estimated these two analytes from the values of Lp(a) protein determined by ELISA and from knowledge of the Lp(a) chemical composition, complemented by data from immunochemical and ultracentrifugal analyses. Statin therapy, while not affecting plasma Lp(a) protein levels (21.7+/-10.4, before, and 22.0+/-10.1 mg/dL, after), caused a decrease in the estimated or true LDL cholesterol (P < 0.0001) to values in some cases as low as 10 mg/dL. This drop in true LDL was validated by the decrease in the LDL band in the ultracentrifugation profiles, and its magnitude was proportional to the degree of total cholesterol lowering and to the pretreatment true LDL/Lp(a) cholesterol weight ratio. We conclude that true LDL but not Lp(a) cholesterol is affected by statin therapy and that this specific response cannot be monitored by current LDL cholesterol assays and must, rather, rely on estimates of these two analytes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12056919
This paper focuses on hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia as risk factors for Alzheimer's disease and, as such, subjects for prevention. The long-term, prospective, population-based studies regarding the relationship between hypertension or hypercholesterolaemia and Alzheimer's disease, and the clinical studies regarding the association between antihypertensive or lipid-lowering medications and the risk of Alzheimer's disease, are reviewed. These studies provide evidence to suggest that elevated blood pressure and cholesterol levels earlier in life may have an important role in the development and expression of late-life Alzheimer's disease. Based on these data, we propose that proper, early interventions aimed at reducing these cardiovascular risk factors may have an impact on the future incidence and prevalence of Alzheimer's disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12058793
Flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) of the brachial artery (BA) has been shown to improve in response to lipid-lowering therapy and other therapeutic interventions, usually within 1 to 2 months. Whether FMD remains improved under therapy in the longer term is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12058813
Multidrug resistance (MDR) is a kind of resistance of cancer cells to multiple classes of chemotherapic drugs that can be structurally and mechanistically unrelated. Classical MDR regards altered membrane transport that results in lower cell concentrations of cytotoxic drug and is related to the over expression of a variety of proteins that act as ATP-dependent extrusion pumps. P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and multidrug resistance protein (MRP1) are the most important and widely studied members of the family that belongs to the ABC superfamily of transporters. It is apparent that, besides their role in cancer cell resistance, these proteins have multiple physiological functions as well, since they are expressed also in many important non-tumoural tissues and are largely present in prokaryotic organisms. A number of drugs have been identified which are able to reverse the effects of Pgp, MRPI and sister proteins, on multidrug resistance. The first MDR modulators discovered and studied in clinical trials were endowed with definite pharmacological actions so that the doses required to overcome MDR were associated with unacceptably high side effects. As a consequence, much attention has been focused on developing more potent and selective modulators with proper potency, selectivity and pharmacokinetics that can be used at lower doses. Several novel MDR reversing agents (also known as chemosensitisers) are currently undergoing clinical evaluation for the treatment of resistant tumours. This review is concerned with the medicinal chemistry of MDR reversers, with particular attention to the drugs that are presently in development.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12059987
Combined hyperlipidemia (CHL) is one of the dyslipidemias more frequently found in clinical practice, and lipid-lowering drugs are often necessary in its management. Some genetic loci have been associated with CHL expression, and some studies have shown modulation of drugs efficiency in the treatment of dyslipidemias by genetic polymorphisms. We have investigated whether common polymorphisms and mutations in the apolipoprotein (apo) E, lipoprotein lipase (LPL), and apo CIII genes influence atorvastatin or bezafibrate responses in patients with CHL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12059988
Dyslipidaemia may account for increased risk of cardiovascular disease in central obesity. Pharmacotherapy is often indicated in these patients, but the optimal approach remains unclear. We investigated the effects of atorvastatin and fish oil on plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels, including remnant-like particle-cholesterol and apolipoprotein C-III, in dyslipidaemic men with visceral obesity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12060980
Proteinuria in Heymann's nephritis, an experimental rat model disease corresponding to membranous nephropathy, has been shown to be due to lipid peroxidation. Since the pathophysiology might be similar to idiopathic membranous nephropathy in humans, we performed a prospective multicenter trial to investigate the efficacy of the lipid peroxidation scavenger, probucol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12062375
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12062731
The cholesterol-lowering agents, known as statins, have been in use for 15 years and are among the most commonly prescribed drugs. Animal studies and premarketing clinical trials have given signals of hepatotoxicity, primarily minor elevations in serum alanine aminotransferase enzyme (ALT) levels. For that reason, all of the cholesterol-lowering drugs have labeling that requires monitoring of liver enzymes. Postmarketing experience, however, suggests that hepatotoxicity is rare and thus it is timely to revisit the issue. The first of the statins, lovastatin, was approved in 1986 and has acquired 24 million patient-years of clinical experience. Minor elevations in liver enzymes, i.e., ALT 3 x the upper limit of normal (ULN) occur in 2.6% and 5.0% of patients on lovastatin doses of 20 and 80 mg/day, respectively. These elevations are reversible with continuing therapy, are dose related, and are probably related to cholesterol lowering per se. Rare cases of acute liver failure (ALF) have been reported with all of the cholesterol-lowering drugs. With lovastatin, the rate is approximately 1/1.14 million patient-treatment years, which is 9% of the background rate of all causes of ALF and approximately equal to the background rate of idiopathic ALF. Monitoring for hepatotoxicity has not been effective in preventing serious liver disease, largely because of its rarity and the poor predictive value of minor ALT elevations. In fact, it may increase patient risk because of needless discontinuation of cholesterol-lowering therapy for false-positive results in patients who are benefiting from treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12062737
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12064258
The transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy to humans as variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) has focused public attention on how prion diseases are transmitted and how prions reach the brain after exposure. Prion diseases are characterised by transmissibility and neuropathological features of gliosis, neuronal loss and microscopic vacuoles, termed spongiosis. The principal component of prions is the glycoprotein PrP(Sc), which is a conformational modified isoform of the normal membrane protein PrP(C). How are prions transmitted and how do prions find their way once they have been ingested? Prion models in mouse and hamster point to lymphoreticular cells which support an early replication phase of prions before reaching the central nervous system via peripheral nerves. Whilst some key players seem to have been identified so far, the mechanisms of prion propagation to the brain are still not fully understood. Seemingly contradictory results have led to some confusion and have provoked discussion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12067933
To investigate possible inequities in the use of statins for people with coronary heart disease according to a wide range of social and clinical factors. Design and setting: Cross sectional analysis of data from the Health Survey for England 1998, a population based survey.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12067936
To determine the prevalence and correlates of lipid lowering drug use among older British men with established coronary heart disease (CHD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12069369
Cholesterol management to reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease is a major public health concern. Despite widespread recognition of lipid abnormalities as cardiovascular risk factors, significant cardiovascular event reductions with cholesterol-lowering therapies, and dissemination of treatment guidelines, most high-risk patients are not at target lipid levels. In addition to lifestyle changes, four major drug classes are available to modify lipid levels: fibrates, niacin, resins, and statins. High efficacy and tolerability in clinical trials make statins the most widely prescribed of these agents. Newer, more potent members of this class and novel formulations of niacin and resins may provide more effective therapy for dyslipidemia with fewer side effects. Several agents in development (cholesterol-absorption inhibitors and ACAT inhibitors) exploit mechanisms of action complementary to those of current treatments and combined with statins may produce greater improvements in lipid profiles than are now possible. These innovations should enable a greater number of patients to achieve more aggressive cholesterol goals, thereby reducing the risk of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12069671
The secondary prevention benefit of therapy with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) has been clearly demonstrated; however, the role of early initiation of statins after acute coronary syndromes (ACSs) is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12069677
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12071579
Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (statins), a potent class of cholesterol-lowering drugs, exert a number of pleiotropic effects, including anti-inflammatory and antithrombotic properties. Evidence is now accumulating that these effects are not related to the reduction in lipid levels. In vitro studies, supported recently by in vivo data, indicate that treatment with statins results in a significant decrease in the levels of inflammation markers, such as C-reactive protein, interleukin 6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha, which appear to be predictors of acute coronary events and help stratify cardiovascular risk. Up to now, only high-sensitive C-reactive protein testing has the potential to become an adjunctive method to assess the risk of coronary events in low- and high-risk individuals. Statins can also inhibit tissue factor expression, leading to impaired activation of the blood coagulation cascade, as evidenced by a decrease in thrombin generation in vivo. Interrelated inhibition of inflammation and thrombosis induced by statins is believed to largely contribute to clinical benefits from statin therapy, regardless of cholesterol levels. Further studies will answer the question whether markers of inflammation, other than C-reactive protein and possibly indices of thrombin formation, might improve cardiovascular risk stratification.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12071780
The New Zealand Intensive Medicines Monitoring Programme (IMMP) undertakes prospective observational cohort studies on selected new drugs in the early postmarketing period using prescription-event monitoring (PEM) methodology with the purpose of identifying signals of previously unrecognised ADRs and establishing risk profiles for each drug. Events are reviewed by a physician and a relationship is established between each event and the drug. The events are then sorted into reactions and incidents. The latter are used to assist signal detection and control for bias. Rates for reports, reactions and incidents are used to assess the adequacy of reporting, signal detection and identification of confounders. Most signals are identified by clinical evaluation of the reports at a stage when statistical analyses are unlikely to have the power to detect them with confidence. The incident group is used for signal detection and controlling for bias. A low reporting rate indicates that certain types of event are unlikely to be reported. A systematic review of the original case reports at the site of collection provides the best opportunity for early signal detection. More resources need to be invested in the training and support of clinical evaluators. Categorising events into reactions and incidents gives added value to the data. Rates of reporting should be quoted with the results of cohort studies to facilitate assessment of their power to detect new signals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12072338
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12072574
In hypercholesterolemic and hypertensive patients, an increased propensity of their low-density lipoprotein (LDL) to oxidative modification has been observed. Because oxidized LDL (ox-LDL) plays a major role in atherosclerosis, the current study analyzed the anti-oxidative effect of valsartan (an angiotensin II receptor antagonist) therapy in combination with fluvastatin therapy in these patients. Administration of 40 mg/d of fluvastatin for 2 months to seven patients resulted in significant reduction in plasma total and LDL cholesterol (by 24-28%). Valsartan administration (80 mg/d for an additional 2-month period) in combination with fluvastatin did not further affect plasma cholesterol levels. Fluvastatin therapy inhibited the susceptibility of LDL to copper ion-induced oxidation, as shown by prolongation of the lag time by 22% and by a reduction of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels by 14%, as compared with the patient's LDL baseline oxidation. The addition of valsartan to fluvastatin resulted in a further 17% prolongation of the lag time and in an additional reduction of 21% in TBARS levels. In a parallel study, the LDL from eight patients who were first treated with 80 mg/d of valsartan for 2 months demonstrated reduced susceptibility to copper ion-induced oxidation, as observed by prolongation of lag time by 23% and reduction in TBARS levels by 19%, compared with the baseline values. The administration of 40 mg/d of fluvastatin for an additional 2 months in combination with valsartan, however, demonstrated no further inhibitory effect on LDL oxidation. The anti-oxidative properties of fluvastatin and valsartan against LDL oxidation were also demonstrated in vitro and the combination of both drugs was shown to have an additive effect. Valsartan therapy in hypercholesterolemic and hypertensive patients has an additive anti-oxidative effect to that of fluvastatin therapy. This may be related both to the anti-oxidative properties of valsartan and to the blocking of angiotensin II-induced oxidative stress.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12073695
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12073858
The current and future roles of statins as antilipemic agents for the prevention and management of coronary artery disease (CAD) are reviewed. Therapy with hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) substantially reduces total cholesterol and low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations. Large clinical trials have documented the efficacy of statin therapy for both primary and secondary prevention of CAD. Nevertheless, many eligible patients are either untreated or inadequately treated with these agents. In one study, 61% of patients with documented CAD were not treated with a lipid-lowering agent. Large percentages of high-risk patients receiving such agents are not meeting cholesterol goals set by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP). Populations at increased risk for coronary events include patients with diabetes, women, the elderly, and patients with established CAD. Comparative studies have not shown any one agent as clearly superior to the others. Future possibilities for statin use include early treatment of hypercholesterolemia and acute coronary syndromes consistent with guidelines established by NCEP. Many clinicians now believe that an aggressive approach to lowering LDL cholesterol may yield even greater reductions in coronary events. Treatment may reduce the risk of recurrent ischemic events when initiated within 96 hours of hospitalization for acute myocardial infarction or unstable angina and continued for up to four months. Another use may be the management of atherosclerotic cerebrovascular disease. Closer attention to potential adverse effects will be necessary before any expansion in statin use. Statins are highly effective for improving cardiovascular outcomes in high-risk patients but are frequently underused. Pharmacists can help extend the benefits of statins to more patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12074206
The glycaemic and lipid effects of treatment with pioglitazone in combination with a stable insulin regimen were evaluated in patients with type 2 diabetes. Patients (n=566) receiving stable insulin regimens for > or = 30 days yet who had HbA1c > or = 8.0% and C-peptide > 0.7 microg/l were randomised to receive once-daily 15 mg pioglitazone, 30 mg pioglitazone, or placebo in a 16-week multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Per study protocol, the insulin dose was to remain unchanged, but could be decreased in response to hypoglycaemia. At the end of double-blind treatment, patients receiving pioglitazone (15 mg or 30 mg) showed statistically significant mean decreases relative to baseline HbA1c (-1.0 and -1.3, respectively; p<0.0001) and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) (-34.5 mg/dl [-1.92 mmol/l] and -48.0 mg/dl [-2.67 mmol/l], respectively; p<0.0001); these differences compared with placebo were also significant (p<0.0001). Pioglitazone (15 or 30 mg) yielded significant increases in HDL-C levels (mean increases ranging from +7.1% to + 9.3%) compared with baseline or placebo (p<0.01). The 30 mg dose also significantly reduced mean triglyceride levels (-23.7%) compared with placebo (p=0.0218). No consistent changes in TC or LDL-C levels were observed. The incidence of adverse events was similar in all treatment groups, although the incidences of weight increase, hypoglycaemia and oedema were higher among patients receiving insulin plus pioglitazone. There was no evidence of hepatotoxicity or drug-induced elevations of serum ALT > or = 3 x ULN. Pioglitazone, when added to stable insulin regimens, significantly improved HbA1c and FPG in type 2 diabetes. Pioglitazone treatment also provided significant benefit with respect to plasma HDL-C and triglyceride levels. Whether these lipid changes have an impact on overall diabetic complications remains to be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12074332
The main reason for a failure of peritoneal dialysis is due to technical problems or infections. By starting PD immediately after the insertion of a dialysis catheter (instead of starting HD before optimal healing of the PD-catheter) it may be easier to achieve acceptance for PD by the patients. An easy and tight access is achieved when inserting the PD-catheter through the rectus muscle, fixing it with three purse string sutures, two of them fixing the inner cuff between the peritoneal membrane and the inner rectus fascia. Thereby early and late leakage will be rare and good drainage is normally achieved besides a low risk for exit site infections. Using Coloplast adhesive insulin can be injected into the PD bags in a simple way even by patients with bad vision. Using ultraviolet light, as additional exchange device (UV-box), the risk for peritonitis is reduced compared to classic manual connection. Using the Y-set or duo-bag system the risk for peritonitis is further lowered. Malfunction by dislocation of the intraperitoneal part of the catheters can often be corrected without surgery using a bent stylet. A controlled study showed that antibiotic prophylactics could significantly reduce the risk for peritonitis in the follow up after insertion of PD catheters. Additionally the risk for peritonitis is reduced using a special connector for the PET-sampling procedures. X-ray of catheter location in the abdominal cavity can be performed by injection of 20-ml contrast media into 100 ml of PD fluid residing in the PD-bag. After mixing, small portions of this fluid can be infused into the abdomen for X-ray determination of the location. An increased ultrafiltration failure during PD may be due to use of beta-blocker medication. After ceasing this medication recovery may occur. Avoiding pets in the room used for PD-exchange may lower the risk for peritonitis further. A devoted nurse and physician will keep up the patients' spirit and help to convert patients not suitable for PD to HD or the other way round. By such measures the incidence of peritonitis can be reduced to 1 in 40 treatment months or less.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12075242
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12075248
Enoxaparin was shown to be superior to unfractionated heparin in the patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (ACS) in the Efficacy and Safety of Subcutaneous Enoxaparin in Non-Q-wave Coronary Events study and the Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 11B trial. However, enoxaparin has had limited acceptance in clinical practice, in part because of the contemporary management of these patients, which includes glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition and the use of early invasive management strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12076217
Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is associated with excellent short-term improvements in ischemic symptoms, yet only three fifths of PCI patients at 5 years and one third of patients at 10 years remain free of major adverse cardiac events (MACE).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12076230
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12076239
Recommendations to treat older adults with hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) for the primary prevention of coronary heart disease events are supported by a single clinical trial restricted to adults 73 years or younger with low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12077562
Most of the currently available statins and fibric acid derivatives have been implicated in causing complications either in monotherapy or in combination therapy. Adverse events occur more often with the statins that are metabolized via the CYP enzyme system and its 3A4, 2C9 or 2C19 paths. All compounds interfering with the same cytochrome system may either impair or enhance the elimination of statins. Other factors predisposing to adverse effects are age, female sex, renal insufficiency, electrolyte disturbances, infections and trauma. Complications chiefly concern the hepatic function, skeletal muscles and peripheral nerves. The major adverse effect is myopathy, up to rhabdomyolysis with ensuing acute renal insufficiency. Fibrates bind to peroxisome proliferator-activated nuclear receptors alpha, with subsequent stimulation of fatty acid oxidation and reduction in the rate of hepatic lipid generation. Fibrates are associated with a number of adverse effects, including liver enzyme elevations, gastrointestinal side effects and rhabdomyolysis. The combination of statins with fibrates may cause serious complications and should be avoided when possible. In order to prevent or minimize adverse clinical outcomes, patients should be closely monitored and informed of the most common symptoms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12079440
Few published data in particular from the United States indicate that the implementation of guidelines for prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) is far from optimal. The objective of our study was to identify the type and prevalence of lipid-lowering medications in a German outpatient CHD population and to examine the impact of applied treatment regimens on serum lipid levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12079617
The objective of this study was to determine whether improvements in the lipid profile observed in controlled clinical trials with pioglitazone are seen in the clinical practice setting, and to ascertain the influence of concurrent statin treatment. Charts of 100 consecutive patients with type 2 diabetes (mean age 56.8 years) treated with pioglitazone (45 mg/day) for 2-4 months were retrospectively analyzed for changes in serum lipids, glycemic parameters, and body weight. Subanalyses were performed on the relationship of lipid changes to baseline lipid values and to concurrent statin therapy. Pioglitazone was associated with statistically significant (p < 0.001) changes from baseline in HbA(1C) (mean decrease 1.09%), body weight (mean increase 1.76 kg), HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) levels (mean increase 15.6%), and triglycerides (mean decrease 9.9%). There was an increase (+ 1.09%) in mean individual LDL-C levels from baseline values, but this change was not statistically significant. The greatest absolute and percentage improvements in HDL-C and triglycerides were observed in patients who had the greatest lipid abnormalities at baseline: in patients with baseline HDL-C < 35 mg/dL, mean individual HDL-C values increased by 31% (p < 0.001); in those with baseline triglycerides >399 mg/dL, triglyceride levels decreased by 46% (p < 0.001); and in patients with baseline LDL-C > 129 mg/dL, mean individual LDL-C values decreased by 10.6% (p < 0.001). Subgroup analysis showed similar beneficial changes in HDL-C and triglycerides in patients who were not receiving concurrent statin therapy (n = 48) as in those who were receiving statins (n = 49). This observational study demonstrated that significant improvements in HDL-C and triglyceride levels can be achieved with pioglitazone in the clinical practice setting. The greatest improvements occurred in patients with the worst baseline lipid levels, and benefits were seen regardless of whether patients were receiving concurrent statin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12081213
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12081988
Although effects of statins on cardiovascular outcomes are well established in men, fewer data exist for women. Furthermore, the effects of statins plus hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on cardiovascular outcomes are uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12083733
Based on the data from large single and multi-center clinical trials, including the Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation (HOPE) study, it is clear that the presence of microalbuminuria is a signal from the kidney that cardiovascular risk is increased and that vascular responses are altered. This is exemplified by studies that have demonstrated that the compensatory vasodilation seen following relief from prolonged ischemia or infusion of vasodilators such as nitroglycerin is blunted in people with microalbuminuria. Thus, the presence of between 30 and 299 mg/day of albumin in the urine is associated with abnormal vascular responsiveness, which may be the result of more advanced atherosclerosis and not necessarily related to the presence of hypertension or renal disease. Agents known to reduce the rise in microalbuminuria or actually reduce the level of microalbuminuria, such as ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, beta blockers, non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers and diuretics, have all been shown to reduce cardiovascular mortality and in some cases preserve renal function. This article will present an overview of the data that support the assertion that a reduction in the rise of microalbuminuria is a significant consideration in the selection of agents to treat a given risk factor (cholesterol or blood pressure) to a recommended target goal. Achieving such a goal with agents that also impact microalbuminuria will provide for a more complete cardiovascular risk reduction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12086554
To review the pharmacology, virology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, safety, and clinical use of lopinavir/ritonavir (Kaletra, Abbott Laboratories).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12086556
To review the use of orlistat in type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12087019
This study evaluated the effect of a atorvastatin-fenofibrate combination on lipid profile, in comparison to each drug alone, in patients with type 2 diabetes and combined hyperlipidemia (CHL).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12087021
Endothelial dysfunction is considered an important early marker of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular risk and is currently used as a surrogate end point for cardiovascular risk in clinical trials. Type 2 diabetic patients show a characteristic dyslipidemia. Aggressive lipid lowering might be an effective method to improve endothelial function in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12087027
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12087035
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12088769
The mortality risk associated with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) remains controversial. Although elective CABG is quite safe, the effects of recent myocardial infarction, gender, and other clinical factors on perioperative mortality rates are not completely understood. The objective of this study was to determine in-hospital mortality rates for patients with AMI receiving CABG and to generate a model to predict the risk for any individual patient with specific risk factors. Using the National Registry of Myocardial Infarction 2 database, we identified 71,774 subjects (21,270 women) with AMI who underwent CABG; we excluded those subjects who received immediate surgery as reperfusion therapy. Multivariate logistic regression was used to quantify the independent effects of age, recent myocardial infarction, gender, and other covariates on mortality. A risk score was then generated from the regression model to quantify the mortality risk. The results of logistic regression modeling determined that age was an independent predictor of in-hospital death (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 3.05, 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.76 to 3.37 for age >75), as were previous CABG (OR 2.84, 95% CI 2.55 to 3.16), heart failure on presentation (OR 1.73, 95% CI 1.57 to 1.91 for Killip class II), and female gender (OR 1.58, 95% CI 1.45 to 1.71). The mortality risk score showed that 55% of patients had risk scores of 2 to 5 and mortality rates of 4% to 13%. This moderate risk group experienced 76% of the total predicted mortality. Thus, in-hospital CABG mortality rates after AMI are high compared with elective surgery. Using the described risk score, clinicians can quantify the impact of patient risk factors in making decisions about referral for and timing of CABG.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12088778
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12088789
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12090553
The abnormal conformation and assembly of proteins is a probable cause of many degenerative diseases of old age. These proteopathies include such clinically disparate neurological disorders as Alzheimer's disease. Parkinson's disease and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, as well as a variety of non-neurological maladies. The involvement of protein pathology in these diseases is well established and we are beginning to understand the process whereby proteins self-assemble and injure tissues; however, we remain largely in the dark regarding the fundamental origins of the proteopathies. Our present knowledge suggests three broad therapeutic approaches to abrogating the proteopathic cascade: reduce the production of the offending proteins, prevent their self-assembly, or promote their removal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12090723
Eisai and Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) are developing the triazole, ravuconazole, as a potential treatment for fungal infection [187888]. Eisai selected the compound for further development on the basis of its good safety profile and well-balanced antifungal activity [187888]. Ravuconazole has a broader antifungal spectrum than fluconazole and itraconazole, particularly against strains of Candida krusei and Cryptococcus neoformans [271854], [342757], [370312]. By June 1999, the compound was undergoing phase II trials [327113]. In November 2001, it was reported that BMS was seeking a co-development partner for the compound [430011]. In October 2001, analysts at ABN Amro predicted sales of US $50 million in 2003 [444020].

Abstract for pubmed ID 12090746
The Glycine389 variant of the beta-1 adrenergic receptor generates markedly less cAMP when stimulated in vitro than the more prevalent Arginine389 variant and may confer protection against coronary events similar to that observed with beta-blockers. The aim of this study was to ascertain whether this Glycine389 variant protects against coronary events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12090862
The Heart and Estrogen/progestin Replacement Study (HERS) found no overall reduction in risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) events among postmenopausal women with CHD. However, in the hormone group, findings did suggest a higher risk of CHD events during the first year, and a decreased risk during years 3 to 5.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12090974
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12091000
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12091755
There is an obvious need to measure low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in all patients with acute myocardial infarction and coronary artery disease. The recent guidelines of the National Cholesterol Education Program have established the desired level for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol for such patients at <100 mg/dL. However, several studies have demonstrated a lack of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol measurement and lipid-lowering therapy with statins in patients with acute myocardial infarction and coronary artery disease. These findings point to a need for quality of care improvement efforts to foster both lipid measurement and statin use in such patients. Many studies have demonstrated the numerous beneficial effects of statin use. In addition to lipid lowering, these include plaque stability and ant platelet, ant macrophage, and antiatherothrombotic activities as well as enhanced endothelial activity. As a class of drugs, the statins have been shown to offer significant benefits with little in the way of associated risks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12091773
Older men and women with coronary artery disease, prior stroke, peripheral arterial disease, and extracranial carotid arterial disease with a serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol > 125 mg/dL despite diet should be treated with lipid-lowering drug therapy, preferably with statins, to reduce the serum LDL cholesterol to < 100 mg/dL. If statin drug therapy does not lower the serum LDL cholesterol to < 100 mg/dL in older persons with coronary artery disease, a bile acid binding resin, such as cholestyramine, should be added, since this drug does not increase the incidence of myositis in persons taking statins. The physician should use statins to treat older persons without atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease with a serum LDL cholesterol > or = 160 mg/dL plus one major risk factor, or a serum LDL cholesterol greater than or equal to 130 mg/dL plus a serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol < 50 mg/dL. Gemfibrozil may be useful in reducing the incidence of coronary events in persons with coronary artery disease whose primary lipid abnormality is a low serum HDL cholesterol level. There are no good data supporting treatment of hypertriglyceridemia unassociated with increased LDL cholesterol or decreased HDL cholesterol for prevention of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12095313
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene therapy may be useful for the treatment of lower-limb ischemia. The objectives of this study were to evaluate safety and angiographic and hemodynamic responses of local catheter-mediated VEGF gene therapy in ischemic lower-limb arteries after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA). For this study, we recruited patients with chronic lower-limb ischemia and atherosclerotic infrainguinal occlusion or stenosis suitable for PTA. In the study, 18 patients received 2x10(10) plaque-forming units (pfu) VEGF-adenovirus (VEGF-Ad), 17 patients received VEGF-plasmid/liposome (VEGF-P/L; 2000 microg of VEGF plasmid, 2000 microl of DOTMA:DOPE), and 19 control patients received Ringer's lactate at the angioplasty site. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) was used to evaluate vascularity before, immediately after, and 3 months after the PTA. Clinical follow-up data, basic laboratory tests, and ankle-brachial index (ABI) were evaluated. Primary endpoint was DSA analysis of vascularity, and secondary endpoints were restenosis rate, Rutherford class, and ABI after 3 months follow-up. No major gene transfer-related side effects or differences in laboratory tests were detected between the study groups. However, anti-adenovirus antibodies increased in 61% of the patients treated with VEGF-Ad. For the primary endpoint, follow-up DSA revealed increased vascularity in the VEGF-treated groups distally to the gene transfer site (VEGF-Ad P=0.03, VEGFP/L P=0.02) and in the VEGF-Ad group in the region of the clinically most severe ischemia (P=0.01). As for the secondary endpoints, mean Rutherford class and ABI showed statistically significant improvements in the VEGF-Ad and VEGF-P/L groups, but similar improvements were also seen in the control patients. We conclude that catheter-mediated VEGF gene therapy is safe and well tolerated. Angiography demonstrated that VEGF gene transfer increased vascularity after PTA in both VEGF-Ad- and VEGF-P/L-treated groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12096273
Migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) contributes to intimal hyperplasia in saphenous vein (SV) bypass grafts, which leads to patency-threatening stenosis. Evidence for the involvement of basement membrane-degrading matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and growth factors in mediating SMC migration and proliferation has been presented in a number of in vitro and in vivo models. 3-Hydroxy-3 methylglutaryl CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) are widely used in patients with atherosclerosis and are claimed to have additional effects beyond cholesterol reduction. We therefore examined the effects of simvastatin, a commonly prescribed statin, on the proliferation and migration of cultured human SV SMC and on neointima formation and MMP activity in human SV organ cultures. To clarify its mode of action, we studied in parallel the effects of a specific MMP inhibitor, marimastat.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12096274
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a common vascular degenerative disease. AAA wall contains inflammatory cells that produce matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) that probably contribute to elastolysis and remodeling of the aneurysm. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) have been shown to reduce the expression of various molecules (including MMPs) independently of their cholesterol-lowering effect. The aims of this study are to investigate whether statins could modulate the biology of AAA wall and have a potential therapeutic value against AAAs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12098920
The mortality of cardiovascular disease has decreased substantially in later years though it is uncertain whether this decrease is due to a better profile of risk factors in the population or to improvements in medical treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12099323
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12099325
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12099384
Atorvastatin is increasingly used as a cholesterol-lowering agent in solid organ transplant recipients receiving cyclosporine A (CsA). However, the potential bilateral pharmacokinetic interaction between atorvastatin and CsA in renal transplant recipients has not previously been examined. Baseline 12-h CsA pharmacokinetic investigation was performed in 21 renal transplant recipients and repeated after 4 weeks of atorvastatin treatment (10 mg/ d). At week 4, 24-h pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin was also performed. All patients received basiliximab induction followed by CsA and prednisolone immunosuppression. Compared with historic controls, CsA-treated patients showed, on average, sixfold higher plasma HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity after 4 weeks of atorvastatin treatment (p < 0.05). Atorvastatin had a moderate effect on the pharmacokinetics of CsA and reduced the AUC0-12 (area under curve, 0-12h) by 9.5 +/- 18% (p = 0.013) and Cmax (maximal concentration) by 13.5 +/- 24% (p =0.009), while C12 (trough level) was unchanged (p =0.42). Total and LDL cholesterol decreased by 26.8 +/- 8.4% (p < 0.0001) and 41.5 +/- 11.0% (p < 0.0001), respectively. Bilateral pharmacokinetic interaction between atorvastatin and CsA resulted in sixfold higher plasma HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity, but only a moderate decrease in systemic exposure of CsA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12103251
The concept of pharmacologic "class effects" exists across a broad range of medical products and is particularly pervasive with regard to cardiovascular agents. Evolution of the concept over the past two decades has shown the influence of physicians' practice patterns, pharmaceutical companies, health maintenance organizations and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Understanding the evolution of health care, social and economic policies, acknowledging the correction of medical misconceptions and inaccurate understanding and appreciating the emergence of new medical knowledge over the past decade should modify the clinician's viewpoint of "class effects." These revelations should signal caution in extrapolating the outcome efficacy or safety of one agent to another within a pharmacologic class. The authors urge clinicians, pharmaceutical companies, health maintenance organizations and the FDA to re-examine their concept of "class effects." An appeal is made for physicians to prescribe those pharmaceutical agents with definitive evidence of mortality and morbidity efficacy and safety established by appropriately scaled randomized clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12103255
We sought to estimate the potential gains in life expectancy achieved with statin therapy for individuals without overt hyperlipidemia but with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12103306
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12104065
Epidemiological evidence and clinical trials with fibrate therapy show a clear relationship between low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and cardiovascular risk. In addition to lowering plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and triglycerides (TG), the hydroxy-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), also raise the levels of HDL-C. This review summarizes the results of five randomized, multicenter studies in hypercholesterolaemic patients in which multiple doses of atorvastatin and simvastatin were compared for their effects on lipids and lipoproteins including HDL-C. Both statins reduced LDL cholesterol and achieved parallel decreases in TG, with atorvastatin showing a slight overall superiority in these studies. Both HDL-C and apolipoprotein (Apo) A-I, its associated apoprotein, were significantly and consistently increased by all doses of simvastatin. However, atorvastatin had a different dose-response effect from simvastatin on both lipid parameters. Whereas HDL-C and Apo A-I were elevated by low doses of atorvastatin, the effect diminished markedly with increasing dose suggesting a possible negative dose-response effect. At higher doses, simvastatin increased HDL-C and Apo A-I significantly more than atorvastatin. These data indicate that statins may not be identical in all their clinical properties relevant to reducing the risks of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12105139
To investigate the relationship between soluble markers of platelet, endothelial and rheological function, and target organ damage and their response to intensified management in a population of middle-age hypertensive patients at high risk of cardiovascular complications, we studied 382 consecutive patients (308 men; mean age, 63 years, SD 8) along with 60 normotensive controls free of cardiovascular disease. Patients were divided into those with target organ damage (TOD; n=107) and those free of end-organ damage. Plasma levels of soluble P-selectin (sP-sel), a marker of platelet activation, and von Willebrand factor (vWF), an index of endothelial damage/dysfunction (both enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), and the rheological indices fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, hematocrit, platelet, and white cell count were measured. In 53 patients, variables were further measured after 6 months of intensified cardiovascular risk management. Patients with TOD had significantly higher vWF, 137 (SD 33) versus 125 (SD 33) IU/dL (P=0.002,) and a greater proportion of smokers, 31% versus 16% (P=0.002). There were no statistically significant differences in plasma viscosity, fibrinogen, hematocrit, white blood cell count, platelet count, or sP-sel between the 2 subgroups. In multivariate analysis, vWF was a significant independent predictor for TOD. After 6 months of intensified management in 53 patients who entered the trial, there were significant reductions in systolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, hematocrit, plasma viscosity, sP-sel, and vWF (all P<0.01) but no significant change in fibrinogen. In conclusion, there is a relationship between TOD and endothelial damage/dysfunction in hypertension. Intensified management results in improvements in hemorheology, endothelial and platelet function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12105140
Proteinuria is an important risk factor for cardiovascular and renal morbidity and mortality. The effects of 3-hydroxy-3-methyglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy on proteinuria in normolipidemic patients with well-controlled hypertension have not been studied. A total of 63 normolipidemic (total cholesterol <240 mg/dL) and proteinuric (300 to 3000 mg/d) patients with well-controlled blood pressure (<140/90 mm Hg) were randomized to receive either placebo (n=32) or pravastatin (10 mg/d; n=31) after a 3-month placebo period. Pravastatin lowered proteinuria after 6 months by 54% (P<0.0001). Creatinine clearance was stable throughout the study in the 2 groups. Despite unchanged plasma endothelin-1 levels throughout the study, urinary excretion of the peptide was decreased and significantly correlated with improvement in urinary protein excretion in pravastatin-treated patients (r=0.64, P=0.001). The urinary excretion of retinol-binding protein decreased after pravastatin administration, probably reflecting an improvement in tubular function. In contrast, the urinary excretion of IgG did not change significantly throughout the study in either group. Multivariate analysis revealed that proteinuria was only significantly correlated with statin use (P<0.0001, R2= 0.66). Linear regression analysis in the statin-treated group did not show any correlation between changes in lipid profiles and proteinuria regression. Thus, in addition to their primary function of antilipidemia, the addition of pravastatin to treatment for well-controlled hypertension may have an additive effect on reducing proteinuria independent of hemodynamics and lipid-lowering effects, possibly through inhibiting renal endothelin-1 synthesis and improving tubular function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106834
Lipoprotein subclass measurements may enhance the prediction of coronary artery disease (CAD) risk, but clinical application of such information has been hindered by the relatively laborious and time-consuming nature of laboratory measurement methods. In this study, lipoprotein subclass analyses were performed on frozen plasma samples from 241 participants in the Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary arteries Trial using an automated nuclear magnetic resonance technique. The objective was to determine if levels of these subclasses provided additional information on the progression of CAD, based on the change in the minimum lumen diameter, over a 3-year period. After adjustment for race, sex, age, treatment group, baseline lumen diameter, and chemically measured levels of triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, on-trial predictors (p <0.05) of progression included an elevated LDL particle number, and levels of small LDL and small HDL. Within treatment groups, CAD progression was most strongly related to the LDL particle number (placebo) and levels of small HDL (pravastatin). In logistic regression models that adjusted for chemically determined lipid levels and other covariates, a small LDL level > or = 30 mg/dl (median) was associated with a ninefold increased risk of CAD progression (p <0.01) in the placebo group. These results indicate that levels of various lipoprotein subclasses may provide useful information on CAD risk even if levels of traditional risk factors are known.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106843
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106845
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106850
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106851
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106856
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106923
We sought to assess the effects of low density lipoprotein (LDL)-apheresis (LDL-A) for regression of coronary plaque in familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), we set up a one-year follow-up multicenter trial using coronary angiography and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12106924
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12107216
In this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study, normally cycling women (n = 86) with elevated low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels were studied over six menstrual cycles. At the end of the screening phase, participants received placebo for the second menstrual cycle and subsequently were randomized to receive either placebo or simvastatin (40 mg/d) for the next four cycles. The second and sixth menstrual cycles were considered baseline and treatment cycles, respectively. Participants kept a menstrual diary throughout the study and provided daily first-void urine samples during cycles 2 and 6. Urine samples were assayed for LH and pregnanediol glucuronide (PdG). The primary end point was change in luteal phase duration as defined by the day of the urinary LH peak to the day preceding the onset of menstruation. Treatment with simvastatin (40 mg/d) effectively lowered LDL-C by 34.3% (P < 0.001). Simvastatin was generally well tolerated, and no meaningful difference in adverse event profile was observed between treatment groups. Compared with the placebo group, simvastatin did not have clinically relevant effects on luteal phase duration, peak PdG concentration, or integrated luteal phase PdG concentration. The results of this study demonstrate that treatment of healthy premenopausal women for approximately 4 months with simvastatin (40 mg/d) lowers LDL-C without adversely affecting reproductive gonadal function. Simvastatin should not be used during pregnancy or by nursing mothers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12109340
Randomized controlled trials are generally regarded as the gold standard of study designs to determine causality. The inclusion of a placebo group in these trials, when appropriate, is critical to access the efficacy of a drug or supplement. The placebo response itself has received some attention in the medical literature over the past fifty years. The recent increasing utilization of dietary supplements and herbal medications by patients makes it imperative to reevaluate the placebo response in conventional and alternative medicine. This article will review a whole series of unique conditions (allergies/asthma, alopecia, BPH, erectile dysfunction, osteoporosis, weight loss...) and the placebo response associated with them from conventional medical randomized trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12110017
Patients with nephrotic syndrome have impaired endothelial function probably related to dyslipidemia. This study evaluated the effects of statin therapy on dyslipidemia and endothelial function in patients with nephrotic syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12110758
Recent studies have suggested that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl - coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) can increase the bone mineral density (BMD). Our objective was to determine if patients on statin drugs were more likely to have a greater bone mineral density and lower risk of osteoporosis than patients not taking these drugs. A computerized pharmacy system provided complete medication dispensing records for the 983 patients (697 men and 286 women) referred for bone mineral density testing at a single Veterans Affairs Medical Center. In an analysis of covariance model that adjusted for age, body mass index, race, and vitamin use, men using statin drugs were more likely to have a greater BMD of the spine (p < 0.005). The mean difference (effect size) was 0.05 g/cm2 (95% confidence interval of [CL] 0.02-0.09), about 5.3% greater BMD. In women, the association was not significant. The risk of osteoporosis (defined as a T-score < or = -2.5) was determined using logistic regression analysis after adjustment for potential confounding variables. Although not statistically significant, men who received statin drugs for more than 2 yr were approximately half as likely to develop osteoporosis (odds ratio [OR] =.55, 95% CI = 0.28-1.08). A similar effect was observed in women taking statins for any length of time (OR = 0.36, 95% CI = 0.12-1.07). This study suggests that statin drugs may decrease osteoporosis risk, warranting a randomized controlled trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12111013
Recent experimental and epidemiologic studies have suggested that the lipid-lowering drugs, statins, may have bone-protective effects. We studied the effects of statin use on the change in bone mineral density (BMD) in a prospective 4.5-year cohort study based on subjects from the Kuopio Osteoporosis Risk Factor and Prevention (OSTPRE) Study, Finland. Six hundred and twenty women aged 53-64 years were divided into four groups: 55 women reported continuous and 63 women occasional statin use during the follow-up; 142 non-users of statins reported hypercholesterolemia whereas 360 non-users did not. Spinal and femoral BMDs were measured by dual-energy X-ray densitometry in 1995-1996 and 1999-2000 and the BMD changes of the four groups were compared. Characteristics of the study population were obtained with postal inquiries. The mean annual spinal and femoral BMD changes of the study groups were 0.29% and -0.50% for the continuous statin users, 0.19% and -0.57% for the occasional statin users, 0.52% and -0.29% for the hypercholesterolemic non-users of statins, and 0.39% and -0.33% for the non-users of statins without hypercholesterolemia, ( p = 0.398 and p = 0.404) respectively. The corresponding BMD changes adjusted for age, years since menopause, body mass index, BMD at baseline, calcium intake, estrogen and cortisone therapy, duration of follow-up and statin use before the baseline were -0.20% and -0.47%, 0.19% and -0.54%, 0.54% and -0.32%, 0.47% and -0.33% ( p = 0.134 and p = 0.628), respectively. Our results suggest that statins do not protect from early postmenopausal bone loss. Randomized trials are needed to confirm these results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12111445
Studies in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease suggested the development of a vaccine that would induce the production of antibodies against amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide, which in turn would stimulate microglia to phagocytose and remove senile plaques. However, some patients in the human clinical trials developed symptoms of brain inflammation, demonstrated by lymphocyte infiltration and elevated protein levels. These parameters are indicative of a breakdown of the blood-brain-barrier and entry of T-cells into the brain. Abeta-specific activated T-helper cells have the potential to amplify the existing pro-inflammatory conditions that are present in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. Cytotoxic T-cells might even attack the amyloid precursor protein which is present on the surface of many cells, including neurons. Before undertaking further vaccination trials there is a need to re-assess the risks associated with Abeta vaccination and with the therapeutic containment of a neuroinflammatory response. These risks may not be justified in the light of recent studies which have shown the efficacy of conventional, low-risk treatments in slowing the progress of AD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12113263
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12113597
Lipid abnormalities, together with other co-existent risk factors, contribute to the accelerated atherosclerotic process, and consequently to the high incidence of cardiovascular disease, observed in end-stage renal patients. The objectives of this study were to determine the prevalence of dyslipidaemia and to assess how it is managed in a range of patients at four UK renal units.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12114036
Throughout the usual LDL cholesterol range in Western populations, lower blood concentrations are associated with lower cardiovascular disease risk. In such populations, therefore, reducing LDL cholesterol may reduce the development of vascular disease, largely irrespective of initial cholesterol concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12114037
It has been suggested that increased intake of various antioxidant vitamins reduces the incidence rates of vascular disease, cancer, and other adverse outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12116743
Lowering of serum cholesterol levels with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) slowed the progression of atherosclerosis in the carotid arteries in several clinical trials using carotid artery intima media thickness as primary outcome measure. Whereas conventional ultrasonography is limited to thin 2-dimensional image planes, 3-dimensional (3D) ultrasonography provides quantitative measurement of the entire carotid artery plaque volume. This study aims to assess the feasibility of 3D ultrasonography to monitor plaque progression in hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12116890
The genetic polymorphisms that may affect individual responses to cardiovascular agents are reviewed, and the application of pharmacogenetics to cardiovascular disease management is discussed. Pharmacogenetics is the search for genetic polymorphisms that affect responses to drug therapy. Investigators have found many associations between genetic polymorphisms and responses to cardiovascular drugs. Some of these relationships have been demonstrated in large patient populations, such as patients with ischemic heart disease receiving statins. Study data consistently show a greater response to statins in ischemic heart disease patients with genotypes associated with worse prognoses. Studies of other polymorphisms, such as those in the genes encoding anglotensin-converting enzyme and beta 1-adrenergic receptors, have less consistently found relationships between these variations and cardiovascular drug responses. For gene-drug response associations for which the data are inconsistent, the interaction of multiple polymorphisms in multiple genes coding for proteins affected by drug therapy or influencing drug metabolism may prove to have a greater influence on drug responses than any one polymorphism. Once the polymorphisms that best determine the response to a particular drug are known and tests to rapidly identify these variations are available, individual patients may be screened for genetic polymorphisms before drug therapy is begun and the information used to choose agents with the greatest potential for efficacy and least potential for toxicity. Pharmacogenetics has many possible applications in the drug therapy of cardiovascular diseases. Much more must be learned, however, before pharmacogenetic factors can be routinely incorporated into therapeutic decisions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12117017
The authors sought to evaluate the safety and efficacy of atorvastatin administered every other day in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12118183
Osteoporosis remains a significant clinical problem despite effective therapies. Many patients cannot or will not take currently available therapies. For this reason, research continues in search of more effective and more tolerable agents. Arzoxifene and TSE-424 are investigational selective estrogen receptor modulators that have been shown to be effective in animal studies and are now in clinical studies. Tibolone is a tissue-specific steroid that is currently used in Europe for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Multiple studies have shown efficacy in improving bone mineral density, but no fracture studies have been conducted to date. Although studies of the effect of isoflavones on bone mineral density have been encouraging, a large multicenter study in Europe recently showed no effect of isoflavones on fractures. The investigational bisphosphonates ibandronate and zoledronic acid may offer the advantage of less frequent dosing. The newly described agent osteoprotegerin has been shown in early studies to inhibit bone turnover. Finally, the issue of efficacy of statins in bone continues to be debated with no prospective, randomized studies yet to confirm the suggestion of benefit seen in epidemiologic studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12118490
Two hundred and twenty two hyperlipidemic patients were recruited for a 12-week prospective, multicenter, open-label, titrate-to-goal study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 20 to 40 mg per day of simvastatin in a Thai population. The efficacy on lipid lowering was evaluated at 4 weeks and 8 weeks after medication. Based on NCEP ATP II guideline and ADA position statement, subjects were categorized into three groups according to LDL-C goals; group I: patients without CHD and with < 2 CHD risk factors, group II: patients without CHD and with > or = 2 CHD risk factors and group III: CHD patients or diabetic patients with > or = 1 risk factors. Significant changes of all lipid parameters from baselines were noted at 4 weeks after medication except for HDL-C levels. Reduction of serum LDL-C, TC and TG by 40 per cent, 29 per cent and 16 per cent respectively and increase of serum HDL-C by 5 per cent were observed at 8 weeks of therapy (p<0.05). At 4 weeks after taking simvastatin 20 mg/day, 78.9 per cent of patients in group I, 67.4 per cent in group II and 40.9 per cent in group III achieved LDL-C goals. Seventeen per cent of the patients who were evaluated at 8 weeks increased the simvastatin dosage to 40 mg per day in the second month of treatment. At 8 weeks of therapy with simvastatin 20-40 mg/day, 90.1 per cent of patients in group I, 77.4 per cent in group II and 66.7 per cent in group III achieved LDL-C goals. Adverse symptoms during therapy, mostly mild, developed in 6.3 per cent of the 222 patients. Conclusion: Simvastatin 20-40 mg/day was effective and well tolerated in managing lipid parameters in Thai patients similar to other ethnic populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12118834
Patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) often have abnormalities of lipid metabolism or coagulation and fibrinolysis, these patients may thus be more susceptible to atherosclerosis than those on hemodialysis. It has been reported that hypercoagulability and hyperfibrinolysis are correlated with abnormalities of lipid metabolism. Therefore, we investigated the effect of a decrease in lipids on the coagulation and fibrinolysis system in CAPD patients with hyperlipidemia who received lipid-lowering therapy. The patients included 5 men and 13 women, with a mean age of 52.5 years. Pravastatin sodium (10 mg/day) and ethyl icosapentate (1800 mg/day) were administered concomitantly for 8 weeks. Lipid levels and coagulation/fibrinolysis parameters were measured before and after therapy. The patients were divided into two groups depending on their response to therapy: responders showed a decrease in total cholesterol or triglycerides by at least 20% and non-responders showed less improvement. In the responders, the levels of protein C, tissue plasminogen activator/plasminogen activator inhibitor-I complex, factor XIII, alpha2-plasmin inhibitor, and D-dimer were significantly lower after therapy than before therapy. Protein C, factor XIII, and alpha2-plasmin inhibitor were also significantly decreased after therapy in non-responders, but the extent of the decrease was smaller. The plasminogen level was significantly increased after therapy in non-responders. These findings suggest that a decrease in lipid levels and/or some other action by lipid-lowering agents may correct abnormalities of coagulation and fibrinolysis in CAPD patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12118900
This report describes the effects of sirolimus on plasma lipids, and uses the Framingham risk model to assess the clinical importance of these effects. Lipid data from two large controlled studies of 1295 renal transplant patients were analyzed retrospectively. Sirolimus 2 mg/day and 5 mg/day were compared with placebo or azathioprine, and administered concomitantly with steroids and cyclosporine over 12 months. Hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia occurred in all treatment groups and were maximal at 2-3 months. The sirolimus groups evidenced higher lipid levels than the controls, but the elevations diminished over time. At 1 year, the patients given sirolimus 2 mg/day had a mean cholesterol level 17 mg/dL greater and a mean triglyceride level 59 mg/dL greater than the controls. Among the patients given sirolimus 5 mg/day, mean cholesterol was 30 mg/dL greater and mean triglycerides were 103 mg/dL greater than the controls. Treatment with statins and fibrates was effective in reducing cholesterol and triglyceride levels, respectively, in the sirolimus-treated patients. The Framingham risk model predicted that the 17 mg/dL elevation in cholesterol would increase the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) by 1.5 new cases per 1000 persons per year and CHD death by 0.7 events per 1000 persons per year. Lipid elevations observed in the sirolimus-treated patients were manageable, improved over time, and responded to lipid-lowering therapy. Based on the Framingham risk model, the CHD risks associated with these cholesterol elevations are small compared with the baseline risks of the transplant population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12119202
Subjects with moderate combined hyperlipidemia (n=11) were assessed in an investigation of the effects of atorvastatin and simvastatin (both 40 mg per day) on apolipoprotein B (apoB) metabolism. The objective of the study was to examine the mechanism by which statins lower plasma triglyceride levels. Patients were studied on three occasions, in the basal state, after 8 weeks on atorvastatin or simvastatin and then again on the alternate treatment. Atorvastatin produced significantly greater reductions than simvastatin in low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (49.7 vs. 44.1% decrease on simvastatin) and plasma triglyceride (46.4 vs. 39.4% decrease on simvastatin). ApoB metabolism was followed using a tracer of deuterated leucine. Both drugs stimulated direct catabolism of large very low density lipoprotein (VLDL(1)) apoB (4.52+/-3.06 pools per day on atorvastatin; 5.48+/-4.76 pools per day on simvastatin versus 2.26+/-1.65 pools per day at baseline (both P<0.05)) and this was the basis of the 50% reduction in plasma VLDL(1) concentration; apoB production in this fraction was not significantly altered. On atorvastatin and simvastatin the fractional transfer rates (FTR) of VLDL(1) to VLDL(2) and of VLDL(2) to intermediate density lipoprotein (IDL) were increased significantly, in the latter instance nearly twofold. IDL apoB direct catabolism rose from 0.54+/-0.30 pools per day at baseline to 1.17+/-0.87 pools per day on atorvastatin and to 0.95+/-0.43 pools per day on simvastatin (both P<0.05). Similarly the fractional transfer rate for IDL to LDL conversion was enhanced 58-84% by statin treatment (P<0.01) LDL apoB fractional catabolic rate (FCR) which was low at baseline in these subjects (0.22+/-0.04 pools per day) increased to 0.44+/-0.11 pools per day on atorvastatin and 0.38+/-0.11 pools per day on simvastatin (both P<0.01). ApoB-containing lipoproteins were more triglyceride-rich and contained less free cholesterol and cholesteryl ester on statin therapy. Further, patients on both treatments showed marked decreases in all LDL subfractions. In particular the concentration of small dense LDL (LDL-III) fell 64% on atorvastatin and 45% on simvastatin. We conclude that in patients with moderate combined hyperlipidemia who initially have a low FCR for VLDL and LDL apoB, the principal action of atorvastatin and simvastatin is to stimulate receptor-mediated catabolism across the spectrum of apoB-containing lipoproteins. This leads to a substantial, and approximately equivalent, percentage reduction in plasma triglyceride and LDL cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12120281
Pharmacogenomics, which is a field that encompasses the study of genetic polymorphisms that underlie individual differences in drug response, is rapidly advancing. The potential for the widespread use of pharmacogenomics in the drug development process merits an examination of its fundamental impact on clinical-trial design and practice. This article provides a critical analysis of some of the issues that pertain to pharmacogenomics in the drug development process. In particular, four areas will be discussed: clinical-trial design; subject stratification; some new social risks; and economic concerns. Recommendations are offered for addressing the issues that are discussed and anticipating the regulatory needs for pharmacogenomics-based trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12125500
31 cases of atherosclerosis (AS) were treated with Jiang Zhi Tong Mai Fang ([symbol: see text], formula of JZTMF), and its effect was compared with 30 cases treated with lovastatin in the control group. Clinically, the JZTMF formula showed an effect of regulating blood lipids, and therefore it was antiatherosclerotic. The mechanism is, probably, restoration of the function of endothelial cells (EC) by increasing the synthesis of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and decreasing the release of endothelin (ET) as evidenced in the experimental study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12126219
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the largest single killer of Americans. Epidemiologic trials have indicted low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) as directly correlating with CHD events, and clinical trials confirmed that lipid-lowering therapy decreases the risk of CHD events. The literature also indicates that only about 18% of these patients are treated to their goal LDL levels. New guidelines from the National Cholesterol Education Program extend the LDL-lowering recommendations, add a new non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL) goal for patients with hypertriglyceridemia, and increase the number of drug-eligible patients from about 15 to 36 million. Most of those who are eligible for lipid-altering drug therapy have the highest CHD risk and require the most aggressive treatment to achieve goals. This presents a challenge to clinicians: how best to achieve LDL and non-HDL goals. Statins are the most effective agents for lowering LDL and one of the most effective for lowering non-HDL. This efficacy and the ability to reduce CHD risk were well documented in a number of randomized clinical trials. When statin monotherapy fails to achieve goals, a bile acid resin, niacin, or both may be added to lower LDL further, or a fibrate, niacin, or fish oils may be added to lower non-HDL further. Drugs are under development that may enhance our ability to reach LDL and non-HDL goals. Included are a group of so-called super statins, rosuvastatin and pitavastatin; agents that interfere with cholesterol or bile acid transport in the gut, such as ezetimibe; and dual peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor agonists that have both fibrate and thiazolidinedione-like effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12126462
Policosanol is a mixture of alcohols isolated and purified from sugar cane. Recently, Cuban researchers found 5-20 mg daily of policosanol to be effective at improving serum lipid profiles. Policosanol is believed to decrease total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis and increasing LDL processing. Lipid profile improvements are seen in healthy volunteers, patients with type II hypercholesterolemia, type 2 diabetics with hypercholesterolemia, postmenopausal women with hypercholesterolemia, and patients with combined hypercholesterolemia and abnormal liver function tests. Additionally, policosanol has performed equal to or better than simvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin, probucol, or acipimox with fewer side effects in patients with type II hypercholesterolemia. Policosanol also decreases several other risk factors of cardiovascular disease by decreasing LDL oxidation, platelet aggregation, endothelial damage, and smooth muscle cell proliferation. Furthermore, policosanol decreases progression and increases regression of cardiovascular disease assessed by thallium-labeled myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (TL-MPS) and Doppler-ultrasound, and decreases symptoms of cardiovascular disease assessed by the Specific Activity Scale. In post-marketing studies, only 0.31 percent of patients have had adverse events. Furthermore, in animal toxicity studies doses up to 1500 times normal human doses (on the basis of body weight) have shown no negative effects on carcinogenesis, reproduction, growth, and development. However, despite the positive research on policosanol on Cubans, policosanol produced in Cuba is not available in the United States, and only Cuban subjects have been studied. Further research is needed to determine if the same effects will be obtained in U.S. populations with non-Cuban produced policosanol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12127376
The beneficial effects of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) appear to be attributable not only to their lipid-lowering properties, but also to their therapeutic effects on the coagulation system, and anti-inflammatory effect. Furthermore, statins mitigate the apoptosis of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) and macrophages in atherosclerotic plaques.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12127616
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12127920
Despite advances in the treatment of acute coronary syndromes based on randomized trial data and published guidelines, the extent to which such treatments are applied in practice remains uncertain. Data from clinical trials derive from selected geographical areas and in highly selected populations of patients, and hence may not reflect the overall population. The aim of the study was to investigate variations in hospital management and outcome using unselected data collected in the prospective Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events (GRACE).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12132975
Knowledge of long-term persistence with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy is limited because previous studies have observed patients for short periods of time, in closely monitored clinical trials, or in other unrepresentative settings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12132976
Landmark clinical trials have demonstrated the survival benefits of statins, with benefits usually starting after 1 to 2 years of treatment. Research prior to these trials of older lipid-lowering agents demonstrated low levels of 1-year adherence.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12133763
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12134620
Primary prevention of colonic adenomas and cancer through dietary interventions or chemoprevention has great appeal. This article discusses primary prevention goals and promising nutritional or chemopreventive strategies. There is substantial observational evidence that diets high in total calories and fat and or low in fruits and vegetables or total fiber as well as low levels of physical activity are related to the risk of colonic neoplasia. Similar observational data indicate that diets high in specific nutrients such as antioxidant vitamins or calcium may be protective. The article describes some of the newer chemopreventive agents and reviews the data linking diet and lifestyle to colorectal cancer risk, focusing on interventions that have also been studied in prospective clinical trials. Finally the evidence supporting the role of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for the chemoprevention of CRC is reviewed and the status of several other promising newer agents that are entering human trials is summarized.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12135935
Hypercholesterolemia is associated with inflammation and the prothrombotic state. CD40-CD40 ligand (CD40L) interactions promote a prothrombotic response in nucleated cells. The aim of this study was to characterize the in vivo expression of soluble CD40L (sCD40L) in hypercholesterolemia, to correlate it with the extent of the prothrombotic state, and to investigate whether it may be modified by statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12137409
The pathophysiology of stroke in humans is much more complex than what is typically studied in animal models. Embolic stroke models are more complex than pure ischemia models, but are more representative of human disease and may be particularly useful in the study of new therapeutic strategies. Vascular damage is a prominent feature of embolic stroke, and may be a useful therapeutic target. Serotonin antagonists, adenosine-regulating agents, free radical scavengers, matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors, and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are all potentially valuable agents in treating vascular damage after stroke. These agents facilitate decreased infarction volume, hemorrhage, and improved cerebral bloodflow.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12137445
Several guidelines for the prevention and management of coronary heart disease (CHD) have been published. These generally recommend lipid-lowering therapy in patients with and without established CHD on the basis of their low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and, for cases without established CHD, their risk-factor profile. Statins are the preferred lipid-lowering agent for the prevention of CHD because of overwhelming clinical trial evidence that they can significantly reduce the occurrence of CHD mortality and morbidity. Despite the guidelines, only approximately one-third of eligible patients receive lipid-lowering therapy in clinical practice--even for secondary prevention of CHD--and many treated patients fail to achieve their target LDL-C levels. This underuse must affect patients' clinical outcome and quality of life and has economic consequences for society. Reasons for the underuse may include physicians' and patients' attitudes and knowledge, and the perceptions of physicians and healthcare purchasers about economic factors. Health economic evaluations have confirmed that secondary prevention with statins is cost-effective, and that primary prevention is also reasonably cost-effective, depending on the absolute CHD risks in targeted individuals. Newer statins with greater efficacy in reducing LDL-C levels may allow patients to reach target levels more quickly and without the need for dose titration, thus improving clinical outcomes and being more cost-effective in the long term. This proposition should be testedin future clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12137448
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains a major cause of death in industrialised societies, and elevated serum lipids are a significant, highly prevalent and undertreated risk factor for this condition. The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) have revolutionised the treatment of hyperlipidaemia, and results from large-scale, long-term clinical trials have shown that the substantial reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) achieved with these drugs are associated with dramatic decreases in cardiovascular risk. Results from recent comparative clinical trials that have included a new drug in this class, rosuvastatin (Crestor), have demonstrated that it is significantly superior to atorvastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin in reducing total cholesterol, LDL-C and apolipoprotein B (Apo B). It is also significantly more effective than atorvastatin in increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and apolipoprotein A-I (Apo A-I). Rosuvastatin was also superior to all these agents in helping patients meet European Atherosclerosis Society (EAS) and National Cholesterol Education Programme (NCEP) goals for LDL-C. The results of an increasing number of studies indicate that statins have a wide range of pleiotropic properties that almost certainly contribute to their ability to decrease cardiovascular risk and may also make them valuable for treatment of other diseases. These actions include plaque stabilisation, improvement of endothelial function, inhibition of smooth muscle cell proliferation and migration, reduction of expression of adhesion molecules, prevention of cholesterol esterification and accumulation, reduction of secretion of matrix metalloproteinases by macrophages, reduction of platelet activity, reduction of formation of thrombogenic factors, chemoprotection and induction of bone morphogenic protein-2 (BMP-2). Further exploration of these actions will provide key information about class effects and properties of specific members of this highly useful group of drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12137559
The 3-hydroxy-3-methyl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors or statins, specifically inhibit the enzyme HMG-CoA in the liver, thereby inhibiting the rate limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis and so reducing plasma cholesterol levels. Numerous studies have consistently demonstrated that cholesterol lowering with statin therapy reduces morbidity and mortality from coronary heart disease, whilst recent evidence has demonstrated that benefits of statin therapy may also extend into stroke prevention. Since hypercholesterolaemia is a chronic condition, the long-term safety and tolerability of these agents is an important issue. Numerous large-scale clinical trials have consistently demonstrated a positive safety and tolerability profile for statins. Hepatic, renal and muscular systems are rarely affected during statin therapy, with adverse reactions involving skeletal muscle being the most common, ranging from mild myopathy to myositis and occasionally to rhabdomyolysis and death. Postmarketing data supports the positive safety and tolerability profile of statins, with an overall adverse event frequency of less than 0.5% and a myotoxicity event rate of less than 0.1%. The recent withdrawal of cerivastatin from the world market due to deaths from rhabdomyolysis has, however, focused attention on the risk of adverse events and in particular myotoxicity associated with statins. Indeed, initial clinical trial data supports postmarketing data, demonstrating a higher incidence of myotoxicity associated with cerivastatin, particularly when used in combination with fibrates. The potential mechanisms underlying statin-induced myotoxicity are complex with no clear consensus of opinion. Candidate mechanisms include intracellular depletion of essential metabolites and destabilisation of cell membranes, resulting in increased cytotoxicity. Cytochrome P450 3A4 is the main isoenzyme involved in statin metabolism. Reduced activity of this enzyme due to either reduced expression or inhibition by other drugs prescribed concomitantly such as cyclosporin or itraconazole may increase drug bioavailability and the risk of myotoxicity. Such factors may partly account for the interindividual variability in susceptibility to statin-induced myotoxicity, although other as of yet unclarified, genetic factors may also be involved. The risk of rhabdomyolysis is increased with combination fibrate-statin therapy, with initial evidence suggesting that gemfibrozil-statin combination may particularly increase the risk of myotoxicity, with pharmacodynamic as well as pharmacokinetic mechanisms being involved.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12138263
In this study 43 patients with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome were randomly distributed into 2 age- and sex-matched groups. The first group was given fluvastatin while the second was used as control. The cases in the 2 groups were evaluated clinically, biochemically (creatinine clearance, albumin, 24-hour proteinuria, and lipogram), neurologically, and histopathologically (examination of renal biopsies obtained basally and after 1 year of treatment with fluvastatin). In the fluvastatin-treated group but not in the control group, we observed a significant reduction in cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, and triglyceride. Clinical and laboratory assessment showed satisfactory tolerance of the drug by the patients. Proteinuria, serum albumin and creatinine clearance values were significantly better in the statin-treated patients. There was no difference in glomerular sclerosis between the 2 groups while interstitial fibrosis and renal fat deposits were less in the statin-treated group. The reduction in renal fat deposits in the statin-treated group was highly significant, while that of interstitial fibrosis was not. We conclude that: (1) statin can be safely and effectively used in the treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with persistent idiopathic nephrotic syndrome; (2) control of dyslipidemia in nephrotic patients is associated with better control of proteinuria and creatinine clearance; (3) statin treatment may cause regression of renal fat deposits in patients with nephrotic syndrome, and (4) longer term studies are still required to study further possible beneficial effects on renal histology and disease progression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12138411
Over the past 30 years, a considerable body of experimental and clinical evidence has accumulated to support the suggestion that calcium channel blockers (CCBs) have significant antiatherosclerotic effects that are independent of their hypotensive effects. Early research using animal models of atherosclerosis and CCBs in concentrations that exceeded the normal therapeutic dose range showed definite antiatherosclerotic effects, especially in the development of new lesions. Investigations of these effects in humans have used quantitative coronary angiography and B-mode ultrasonography and have demonstrated some antiatherosclerotic effects. This article reviews the currently available evidence of antiatherosclerotic effects of CCBs in animal models and in clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12142124
OBJECTIVES; This study was designed to assess the lipid-independent effects of simvastatin on myocardial perfusion (MP) and coronary microvascular permeability index (PI) at baseline and during episodes of increased cardiac demand in experimental hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12145148
Hepatic accumulation of lipid substrates perturbs apolipoproteinB-100 (apoB) metabolism in insulin-resistant, obese subjects and may account for increased risk of cardiovascular disease. In a placebo-controlled trial, we examined the independent and combined effects of decreasing cholesterol synthesis with atorvastatin (40 mg/day) and triglyceride synthesis with fish oils (4 g/day) on apoB kinetics. The subjects were 48 viscerally obese, insulin-resistant men with dyslipidemia who were studied in a fasted state. We found that atorvastatin significantly decreased plasma apoB-containing lipoproteins (P < 0.001, main effect) through increases in the fractional catabolic rate (FCR) of VLDL-, IDL-, and LDL-apoB (P < 0.01). Fish oils significantly decreased plasma levels of triglycerides and VLDL-apoB (P < 0.001), decreased the VLDL-apoB secretion rate (P < 0.01), but increased the conversion of VLDL to LDL (P < 0.001). Compared with placebo, combined treatment with atorvastatin and fish oils decreased VLDL-apoB secretion (P < 0.03) and increased the FCR of apoB in each lipoprotein fraction (P < 0.03) and the percent conversion of VLDL to LDL (P < 0.05). None of the treatments altered insulin resistance. In conclusion, in visceral obesity, atorvastatin increased hepatic clearance of all apoB-containing lipoproteins, whereas fish oils decreased hepatic secretion of VLDL-apoB. The differential effects of atorvastatin and fish oils on apoB kinetics support their combined use in correcting defective apoB metabolism in obese, insulin-resistant subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12145176
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized crossover study, 15 stable mild hyperglycemic patients without treatment and with features of metabolic syndrome were treated with cerivastatin (0.4 mg/day) or placebo for 3 months. The insulin sensitivity index during the euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp (EHC; 5.4 mmol/l; 80 mU x m(-2) x min(-1)) was increased by cerivastatin treatment (66.39 +/- 3.9 nmol x lean body mass [LBM](-1) x min(-1) x pmol(-1) x l(-1)) as compared with placebo (58.37 +/- 3.69 nmol x LBM(-1) x min(-1) x pmol(-1) x l(- 1); P < 0.01) by 13.7%. Glucose oxidation during EHC was significantly higher with statin treatment (16.1 +/- 1.37 micromol x LBM(-1) x min(-1)) as compared with placebo (14.58 +/- 1.48 micromol x LBM(-1) x min(-1); P < 0.05). During hyperinsulinemia (approximately 800 pmol/l) in EHC steady-state, lipid oxidation was significantly decreased and respiratory quotient was significantly increased with statin treatment (0.33 +/- 0.05 mg x LBM(-1) x min(- 1), 0.94 +/- 0.01) as compared with placebo (0.48 +/- 0.06 mg x LBM(-1) x min(-1), 0.91 +/- 0.01; P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). During statin treatment, the first-phase insulin response increased from 2.07 +/- 0.28 to 2.82 +/- 0.38 pmol x l(-1) x pmol(-1) (P < 0.05). The second phase of insulin responses examined by C-peptide and insulin levels averaged during the hyperglycemic clamp (20 mmol/l) was unchanged. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that 0.4 mg cerivastatin therapy improves first-phase insulin secretion and increases insulin-mediated glucose uptake and respiratory quotient in the early state of obese type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12147960
The Post-CABG trial was designed to assess the effects of 2 different lipid lowering strategies and low dose warfarin vs placebo (2 x 2 factorial) design on the progression of atherosclerosis in saphenous vein grafts. Atherosclerotic progression was determined by comparing baseline and follow-up angiograms (mean interval: 4.3 years) using quantitative angiography. Significant progression of disease in SVG's was reduced with the aggressive lipid lowering strategy compared to the moderate strategy; significant progression in SVG's was not altered by low dose warfarin. The beneficial effects on angiographic changes were demonstrated in multiple subgroups of participants in the trial. The composite clinical end point of death, MI, stroke, PTCA or repeat CABG was analyzed at the end of the trial and 3 years (extended follow-up) after closure of the angiographic trial. At the time of the extended follow-up the aggressive lipid strategy was associated with reduced clinical events; low dose warfarin was also associated with reduced clinical events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12149041
During the last decade, the development of the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, commonly referred to as 'statins', has contributed greatly to cholesterol lowering therapy and cardiovascular risk reduction. These agents are well tolerated and efficacious. Data on nearly 30,000 patients from five long-term randomised, placebo-controlled trials of statins have clearly demonstrated that a broad range of individuals can benefit from such therapy. These include men or women, younger or older individuals, those with elevated or normal cholesterol levels, with or without myocardial infarction or symptomatic coronary heart disease, with or without hypertension or diabetes mellitus, and those who are smokers or non-smokers. Benefits include reductions in the risks for myocardial infarction, and coronary, cardiovascular and all-cause mortality, stroke and the need for coronary revascularisation. Results of the recently completed Heart Protection Trial have clearly confirmed the results of the earlier trials and support the use of statin therapy in secondary prevention. The role of statins in acute coronary syndromes is being actively evaluated and appears promising. In primary prevention, the data are not as convincing and generalisations cannot be made as to whether, and in which subgroup, drug therapy to lower low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol should be initiated. There are important cost implications to consider and the use of statin therapy has to be judged on an individual basis, particularly in those with high or very high LDL cholesterol levels and/or with multiple risk factors rendering them at high short- and long-term risk of coronary heart disease. There is evidence of a 'care gap' in translating trial data into practice, even in secondary prevention, and this needs closing in order to improve patient outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12150693
The pharmacological treatment of acute coronary syndrome (ACS), including unstable angina, non-ST- and ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (MI) is dynamic and continues to evolve. Expert guidelines based on the results of clinical trials for the management of different types of ACS have been published. In both ST-segment elevation and non-ST-segment elevation MI, aspirin/clopidogrel, heparin/low molecular weight heparin/direct thrombin inhibitors, beta-blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are part of the routine regimens. In patients with ST-segment elevation MI, eligibility for thrombolytic therapy needs to be determined and utilised as soon as possible. In patients with non-ST-segment elevation MI, the risks of thrombolytic therapy outweigh the benefits. The use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors has become increasingly important. The use of antihyperlipidaemic agents for the prevention of secondary events in both types of patients continue to be essential and the early aggressive use of lipid-lowering therapy also plays a role in improving endothelial function and stabilising atherosclerotic plaques.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12151856
Electron beam computed tomography is a non-invasive investigation that can quantify calcification within the walls of coronary arteries. Coronary arteries remodel to maintain luminal integrity, so that significant plaque may be present before the development of luminal stenoses. This has led to interest in techniques that assess the coronary artery wall, rather than the lumen. This review examines the power of coronary calcification detected by electron beam computed tomography to predict coronary heart disease events, and outlines recent studies in which it has been used as a surrogate marker for coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12151857
Since hypercholesterolaemia is a chronic condition, the long-term safety of statins is important. Adverse reactions involving skeletal muscle are the most common (reported incidence 1-7%). The recent withdrawal of cerivastatin because of deaths from rhabdomyolysis, of which 25% were related to gemfibrozil-cerivastatin combination therapy, has focused attention on myotoxicity associated with statins and in particular with statin-fibrate combinations. We review the safety profiles of the individual statins, and discuss the mechanisms that may account for myotoxicity associated with statins and these agents and how these may relate to the different myotoxic potential of individual agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12151864
High-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels have received widespread attention because of a multitude of prospective studies that have shown that high levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein identify increased risk of initial cardiovascular events in coronary heart disease patients and increased risk of recurrent cardiac events in patients with stable and unstable angina, patients with acute myocardial infarction, and patients undergoing elective coronary revascularization procedures. In contrast to several other inflammatory markers, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein measurements are standardized and reproducible. The clinical significance of a reliable inflammatory marker includes identification of high-risk individuals, a gauge to monitor the activity of the disease, and a potential therapeutic target to alter the inflammatory component of the disease process. This review focuses on the importance of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein in cardiovascular risk stratification in coronary heart disease patients and discusses several preventive therapies that may reduce cardiovascular risk through reduction in high-sensitivity C-reactive protein.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12152989
P-glycoprotein (Pgp) expression is an independent prognostic factor for response to remission-induction chemotherapy in acute myeloblastic leukaemia, particularly in the elderly. There are several potential agents for modulating Pgp-mediated multi-drug resistance, such as cyclosporin A and PSC833, which are currently being evaluated in clinical trials. An alternative therapeutic strategy is to increase the use of drugs which are unaffected by Pgp. However, in this review, we explain why this may be more difficult than it appears. Evidence from in vitro studies of primary AML blasts supports the commonly held supposition that chemoresistance may be linked to apoptosis-resistance. We have found that Pgp has a drug-independent role in the inhibition of in vitro apoptosis in AML blasts. Modulation of cytokine efflux, signalling lipids and intracellular pH have all been suggested as ways by which Pgp may affect cellular resistance to apoptosis; these are discussed in this review. For a chemosensitising agent to be successful, it may be more important for it to enhance apoptosis than to increase drug uptake.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12153549
We have previously shown elevated fasting plasma concentrations of intestinal remnants, as reflected by apolipoprotein (apo) B-48 and remnant-like particle-cholesterol (RLP-C) in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH). We now investigate the effect of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (simvastatin) on chylomicron remnant metabolism using the measurement of fasting apoB-48 and RLP-C in FH patients after long- and short-term simvastatin therapy and after a wash-out period. We also piloted the response of a breath test, involving the measurement of the fractional catabolic rate (FCR) of an intravenously injected chylomicron remnant-like emulsion labeled with cholesteryl (13)C-oleate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12153554
Treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid and also, to some degree, statins reduces cholesterol saturation of bile. The present study aimed [1] to study the effects of combined treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid and pravastatin on hepatic cholesterol metabolism and [2] to evaluate if the addition of pravastatin to ursodeoxycholic acid treatment has beneficial effects on the lipid composition of gallbladder bile in gallstone patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12162466
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the Western world, with hypercholesterolemia as the major risk factor. The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors represent the most efficient drugsfor the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. They lower plasma cholesterol due to the inhibition of endogenous cholesterol synthesis in the liverand subsequent increased expression of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors, resulting in an up-regulated catabolic rate for plasma LDL. The beneficial effect of statins on the incidence of CHD was clearly demonstrated in several large-scale clinical trials. Currently, five statins (atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin) are available, and two novel compounds (pitavastatin, rosuvastatin) are undergoing clinical investigation. To point out potential mechanisms leading to increased toxicity and to compare the novel statins with the established ones, this article summarizes their pharmacological data since the prevalence of adverse events can be explained at least in part by their pharmacokinetic differences.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12162932
Event trials using statin therapy have shown a beneficial effect on rates of cardiovascular events. The three statins that have been used in long-term trials have shown generally similar effects on rates of myocardial infarction, stroke, revascularizations, and mortality. Safety data appear to be comparable for lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin. Long-term trials of other statins are in progress or pending. The question of how much low-density lipoprotein cholesterol should be lowered may be answered by studies currently in progress.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12162933
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death and disability in the industrialized world. Included among the risk factors for CHD are an elevated level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and a low level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. The discovery of drugs that inhibit 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (statins), the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, constituted a major advance in the treatment of patients with elevated plasma concentrations of LDL cholesterol. However, although the statins are potent LDL-lowering agents, they may not be the therapy of choice for all dyslipidemic patients. This is particularly true for subjects whose primary lipid abnormality is a low level of HDL cholesterol with or without hypertriglyceridemia, a group that includes about one half of patients with CHD. In this report, we review emerging options for the treatment of patients with lipid disorders, including inhibitors of cholesterol absorption, acyl coenzyme A-cholesterol acyltransferase, microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, and cholesteryl ester transfer protein, as well as liver X receptor agonists that up-regulate the expression of ATP-binding cassette transporter A1.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12163127
Dyslipidaemia is a major risk factor in the development of atherosclerosis, and lipid lowering is achieved clinically using fibrate drugs and statins. Fibrate drugs are ligands for the fatty acid receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha, and the lipid-lowering effects of this class of drugs are mediated by the control of lipid metabolism, as directed by PPARalpha. PPARalpha ligands also mediate potentially protective changes in the expression of several proteins that are not involved in lipid metabolism, but are implicated in the pathogenesis of heart disease. Clinical studies with bezafibrate and gemfibrozil support the hypothesis that these drugs may have a significant protective effect against cardiovascular disease. The thiazolidinedione group of insulin-sensitising drugs are PPARgamma ligands, and these have beneficial effects on serum lipids in diabetic patients and have also been shown to inhibit the progression of atherosclerosis in animal models. However, their efficacy in the prevention of cardiovascular-associated mortality has yet to be determined. Recent studies have found that PPARdelta is also a regulator of serum lipids. However, there are currently no drugs in clinical use that selectively activate this receptor. It is clear that all three forms of PPARs have mechanistically different modes of lipid lowering and that drugs currently available have not been optimised on the basis of PPAR biology. A new generation of rationally designed PPAR ligands may provide substantially improved drugs for the prevention of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12163182
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12163444
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12164161
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12164995
To quantify the effect of statins on 1-year mortality, hospitalizations, and decline in physical function among patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD) aged 65 and older living in nursing homes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12166344
In the present study, we evaluated the effects of combination therapy with niceritrol and pravastatin in patients with hyperlipidaemia. A total of 62 patients with hyperlipidaemia, defined as total cholesterol levels above 220 mg/dl or triglyceride levels above 150 mg/dl, were recruited. Patients were divided into two groups: Group N received initial therapy with niceritrol 750-1500 mg/day, and those in Group P, pravastatin 10 mg/day. After 8 weeks, pravastatin 10 mg/day was added to the Group N treatment regimen for a further 8 weeks, while patients in Group P were given niceritrol 750-1500 mg/day in addition to pravastatin for 8 weeks. After the 8-week combination therapy study period, total cholesterol levels were 209.6 mg/dl in Group N and 220.7 mg/dl in Group P. Decreased triglyceride and lipoprotein(a) levels and increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, neither of which were achieved by pravastatin administration alone, were achieved with the combination of pravastatin and niceritrol. We conclude that when a single lipid-lowering drug fails to show therapeutic value, attempting combination therapy with a nicotinic acid preparation and a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) is worthwhile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12167391
In previous beta-blocker trials, post-myocardial infarction (MI) patients were essentially treated with a beta-blocker or placebo. In the CAPRICORN trial, patients were selected on the basis of a left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) <40% following the index MI and randomised to carvedilol or placebo, in addition to modern secondary prophylaxis with ACE inhibitors, aspirin and statins. In 1959 patients with a mean LVEF of 33%, treatment with carvedilol over a mean follow-up period of 15 months reduced total mortality from 15.3% with placebo to 11.9% with carvedilol [relative risk reduction (RRR) =23%, absolute risk reduction (ARR) =3.4%]. The incidence of recurrent MI was reduced from 5.8 to 2.3% (RRR 41%, ARR 2.3%). The number needed to treat (NNT) to prevent one death was 28 for the entire study period and 43 for 1 year of treatment. The results of the CAPRICORN trial are compared with three previous beta-blocker post-MI trials: the Gothenburg metoprolol trial (GMT), the Norwegian timolol trial (NTT) and the beta-blocker heart attack trial (BHAT). The RRRs for total mortality were 36% in the GMT and NTT, and 27% in BHAT. The respective NNTs for total mortality were 32, 18 and 38. NNT for 1 year of treatment was 25 in NTT and 80 in BHAT. The RRR for recurrent MIs were 28% in NTT and 16% in BHAT. The reduction of mortality and recurrent MIs in CAPRICORN is within the range of previous post-MI beta-blocker studies. In post-MI patients with LVEF<40%, add-on treatment with a beta-blocker should be given >48 h after initiation with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and then with a slow dose escalation as applied in CAPRICORN.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12168612
IndexError: list index out of range

Abstract for pubmed ID 12169073
Major depressive disorder (MDD) occurs in 15% to 23% of patients with acute coronary syndromes and constitutes an independent risk factor for morbidity and mortality. However, no published evidence exists that antidepressant drugs are safe or efficacious in patients with unstable ischemic heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12172500
Ecteinascidin 743 (Et743) is an interesting compound in phase II/III clinical trials. Its chemistry is complex, its mechanism of action is original and it is active in human cancers, such as sarcomas refractory to conventional chemotherapy. The present review describes the discovery of the drug, its specific interactions with DNA and its reversible alkylation mechanism with guanine N2 in the DNA minor groove. Et743 is a selective transcription inhibitor, which has the unique characteristic of poisoning transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair. Understanding the molecular pharmacology of Et743 should help in deciding which patients should receive Et743 treatments and which agents should be most useful in association.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12172771
The aim of the present short-term study was to evaluate the use of a new HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, atorvastatin, in the treatment of hyperlipidemia and the effect on blood pressure in a group of hypertensive stable renal transplant recipients with hypercholesterolemia who received kidney grafts before 18 years of age. Eight patients (aged 10.8-30.1 years) with inadequately controlled total cholesterol (TC) levels by a lipid-lowering diet (8 weeks) were treated daily for 12 weeks with atorvastatin at an initial dose of 2.5 mg. The dose was increased monthly by 2.5 mg in order to lower TC levels to less than 200 mg/dl. Serum lipoprotein profile, cyclosporin A (CsA), serum creatinine (SCr), and liver and muscle enzyme levels were measured before starting the lipid-lowering diet, at the start of treatment (baseline), and during treatment. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) (24-h) was carried out in each patient at both baseline and the end of the follow-up. During the lipid-lowering diet, no significant changes in lipoprotein parameters were observed. Atorvastatin was tolerated well and no clinical side effects were noted during the follow-up. The final dose of atorvastatin ranged from 2.5 to 7.5 mg/day. At the end of the study, TC was reduced by 32.2% ( P<0.05), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by 41.8% ( P<0.05), and apo B by 29.5% ( P<0.05). No significant changes in HDL-C, VLDL-C, apolipoprotein AI, and lipoprotein(a) were observed. SCr and CsA levels were unaffected. Overall, no significant changes in mean 24-h, daytime, and nighttime ABPM values between the first and the second recordings were observed. However, both daytime and nighttime systolic and diastolic ABPM values dropped in four patients. In conclusion, low-dose atorvastatin appears to be safe, well tolerated, and effective in the treatment of post-transplant hyperlipidemia. In addition, the capacity of atorvastatin to reduce blood pressure, whether or not related to its lipid-lowering action, deserves further investigation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12176592
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12176600
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12176948
Remnant lipoproteins (RLP-C) are considered important in atherogenesis. Hence, this study was designed to assess RLP-C levels and the effect of statin therapy in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). Elevated RLP-C levels have been associated with the presence and progression of atherosclerotic disease, and their presence in FH patients has been proposed but never established in a large cohort, nor has their response to statin therapy been confirmed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12176951
To test the hypothesis of general atherosclerotic plaque destabilization during acute coronary syndrome (ACS), the present study sought to analyze the 3 coronary arteries by systematic intravascular ultrasound scan (IVUS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12177634
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12181210
To investigate patients' adherence to statin treatment prescribed following their first myocardial infarction (MI) and to estimate the effect of adherence to statins on recurrence of MI and all cause mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12181212
Fibric acid derivatives and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are effective in combination for treating patients with familial dysbetalipoproteinaemia and severe combined dyslipidaemia, but combination therapy affects compliance and increases the risk of side effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12184961
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12186124
Data on the safety and efficacy of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors in managing dyslipidemia in heart transplant recipients is inadequate. We undertook this study to evaluate the comparative safety and efficacy of simvastatin and pravastatin in lowering lipids in heart transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12186809
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12187312
The purpose of the present review is to summarize the available information that supports the therapeutic role for the concomitant and aggressive management of hypercholesterolemia and hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12191598
The functional role of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in the heart has been extensively studied over the last 15 years. Collectively, these studies have demonstrated that TNF-alpha has both diverse and potentially conflicting roles in cardiac function and pathology. These include beneficial effects, such as cardioprotection against ischemia, myocarditis, and pressure overload, as well as potentially adverse effects, such as the development of atherosclerosis, reperfusion injury, hypertrophy, and heart failure. TNF-alpha antagonist therapy recently has been demonstrated to be clinically applicable in inflammatory conditions, and clinical trials are currently in progress in the use of these agents in cardiovascular diseases. The scope for clinical applications of anti-TNF-alpha therapy in cardiovascular diseases is potentially extensive. Hence, this review has been undertaken to evaluate the cardiovascular effects of this pleiotropic cytokine and to evaluate the potential of targeting this cytokine in cardiovascular therapeutics. An overview of the TNF-alpha peptide and its associated signaling are described. This is followed by a discussion of the known roles of TNF-alpha in cardiac physiology and in a diverse array of cardiac pathologies. Reference to experimental and clinical studies using anti-TNF-alpha therapies are described where applicable. The postulated role of TNF-alpha signaling concerning innate cardiac cellular processes that may have direct adaptive effects in the heart will be reviewed with respect to future research directions. Finally, the author postulates that attenuation of TNF-alpha biosynthesis in selected individuals will need to be tested if true benefits of this therapeutic approach are to be realized in the management of cardiovascular diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12193764
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12196129
Accumulation of a 40-42-amino acid peptide, termed amyloid-beta peptide (A beta), is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and identifying medicines that inhibit A beta could help patients with AD. Recent evidence suggests that a class of medicines that lower cholesterol by blocking the enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMG-CoA reductase), termed statins, can inhibit A beta production. Increasing evidence suggests that the enzymes that generate A beta function best in a high-cholesterol environment, which might explain why reducing cholesterol would inhibit A beta production. Studies using both neurons and peripheral cells show that reducing cellular cholesterol levels, by stripping off the cholesterol with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin or by treating the cells with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, decreases A beta production. Studies performed on animal models and on humans concur with these results. In humans, lovastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, has been shown to reduce A beta levels in blood of patients by up to 40%. The putative role of A beta in AD raises the possibility that treating patients with statins might lower A beta, and thereby either delay the occurrence of AD or retard the progression of AD. Two large retrospective studies support this hypothesis. Both studies suggest that patients taking statins had an approx. 70% lower risk of developing AD. Since statins are widely used by doctors, their ability to reduce A beta offers a putative therapeutic strategy for treating AD by using medicines that have already been proved safe to use in humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12196332
Coronary calcification measured by fast computed tomography techniques is a surrogate marker of coronary atherosclerotic plaque burden. In a cohort study, we prospectively investigated whether lipid-lowering therapy with a cholesterol synthesis enzyme inhibitor reduces the progression of coronary calcification.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12197306
Osteoporosis is a chronic disease that affects a large number of both men and women and is characterized by a decrease in bone mass, as well as weakened bones. It causes a significant amount of morbidity and mortality in patients and is often only diagnosed after a fracture occurs. This review will highlight recent advances in the development of novel anabolic approaches for treatment of osteoporosis, such as parathyroid hormone (PTH), calcium sensing receptor modulators, statins and prostanoid receptor agonists. Selected antiresorptive targets (cathepsin K inhibitors and vitronectin receptor antagonists) will also be surveyed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12199980
Statins promote the proliferation, migration, and survival of endothelial cells and bone marrow-derived endothelial progenitor cells (angioblasts) by stimulating the serine/threonine protein kinase Akt (also known as protein kinase B) pathway. Like vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), the statins promote angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. Therefore, Akt activation may explain some of the beneficial effects of the statins, including postnatal neovascularization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12200817
Kidney transplant recipients have high cardiovascular risk and an unfavorable cardiovascular risk profile, which frequently includes hyperlipidemia. Although the use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) is associated with improved survival in the general population, the effects of these drugs on the survival of kidney transplant recipients have not been established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12201488
Screening for anti-cancer substances is commonly conducted using viability assays. An inherent problem with this approach is that all compounds that are toxic and growth inhibitory, irrespective of mechanism of action, will score positive. It would be beneficial to be able to screen for compounds that specifically induce apoptosis. We here describe an ELISA-assay based on a monoclonal antibody (M30) which recognizes a neo-epitope on cytokeratin 18 exposed after cleavage by caspases during apoptosis. We show that this assay detects apoptosis in epithelial cells and that the sensitivity is sufficient for screening in the 96-well format. We used the M30-ELISA assay to screen 500 low molecular weight compounds from a chemical library from the National Cancer Institute and identified 16 drugs with strong pro-apoptotic activity, suggesting that the assay is a useful tool for discovery of pro-apoptotic drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12201623
Atorvastatin is very effective in reducing plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. However, there is no long-term survival study that evaluated this statin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12202841
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204790
There is clear evidence of lipoprotein oxidation in atherosclerotic lesions. Animal studies and observational prospective human cohort studies have been interpreted as supporting a role for antioxidants in the prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD). However, firm recommendations to take antioxidant supplements to treat or prevent CHD require evidence derived from randomised controlled studies. In primary prevention studies, low dose alpha-tocopherol does not reduce the incidence of coronary events (ATBC study), and beta-carotene either has no effect or increases the incidence of coronary events and cancer death (ATBC, CARET, Physician's Health studies). Secondary preventions, those with smaller populations and shorter duration of follow up have shown some benefit from alpha-tocopherol (CHAOS, SPACE), but larger randomised studies indicate no benefit from treatment with alpha-tocopherol (HOPE, GISSI, PPP). Recent studies with antioxidant combinations also show no benefit (HATS, MPS). On the basis of these data, supplements of alpha-tocopherol and beta-carotene cannot be recommended for the treatment or prevention of CHD. Fundamental and applied research may yet find a role for antioxidant supplements in the treatment of coronary disease. However, this will require positive results from combined antioxidant studies currently in progress, and the targeting of oxidative processes that operate in the artery wall and cause or contribute to disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204802
The effect of statins on Lp(a) levels is controversial; furthermore, the potential action of statins on apo(a) fragmentation is indeterminate. We therefore determined the circulating levels of Lp(a) and of apo(a) fragments in hypercholesterolemic patients before and after treatment (6 weeks) with Atorvastatin 10 mg/day (A10) or Simvastatin 20 mg/day (S20). In a double blind study, hypercholesterolemic patients (n=391) at high cardiovascular risk (LDL-C>=4.13 mmol/l; TG<2.24 mmol/l; 34% with documented CHD; 45% hypertensive; and 29% current smokers) were assigned to treatment with A10 (n=199) or S20 (n=192). Plasma Lp(a) and apo(a) fragment levels (n=206) were measured prior to and after treatment. At baseline, A10 and S20 groups did not differ in plasma levels of lipids, Lp(a) (A10: 0.45+/-0.48 mg/ml, S20: 0.46+/-0.5), and apo(a) fragments (A10: 3.88+/-5.22 microg/ml; S20: 3.25+/-3), and equally in apo(a) isoform size (A10: 26+/-5 kr, S20: 25.5+/-5.3). After treatment, both statins significantly reduced Lp(a) levels (A10: 0.42+/-0.47 mg/ml, 6% variation, P<0.001; S20: 0.45+/-0.53 mg/ml, 0.02% variation, P=0.046). A10 and S20 did not significantly differ in their efficacy to lower Lp(a) levels. In a multivariate logistic regression analysis, the reduction of Lp(a) levels was independently associated with Lp(a) baseline concentration, but not to other variables, including LDL-C reduction. Plasma levels of apo(a) fragments were not modified by either statin. In conclusion, both A10 and S20 significantly lowered Lp(a), although this effect was of greater magnitude in atorvastatin-treated patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204807
Statins decrease low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and additionally, reduce triglycerides (TG) and raise high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. This study evaluated the frequency of abnormal TG and HDL-C levels in patients with classical familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) and assessed therapeutic response at different baseline levels of these lipoproteins after 1 year of statin therapy. A total of 508 FH patients were included and mean LDL-C levels (8.37+/-2.12 mmol l(-1)) were severely elevated. After a washout period of 6 weeks, all patients started monotherapy with 80 mg simvastatin. Remarkably, LDL-C reduction was dependent on baseline LDL-C levels ranging from 51.1 to 45.5% in the top versus the bottom third of the LDL-C distribution. Unexpected in FH, elevated baseline TG levels were seen in 30% and low HDL-C levels in 15% of all patients. Also, changes in these lipoproteins were dependent on baseline levels; TG reduction was 40.7 versus 22.2% in patients with elevated versus normal levels, while HDL-C increase was 29.1 versus 11.4% in patients with low versus normal HDL-C levels. In conclusion, FH patients with the worst lipoprotein profile showed the greatest benefit from high-dose simvastatin treatment, since changes in these parameters were partly determined by baseline lipid levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12204809
We compared the effects of five different statins (atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin, and fluvastatin) on the lipid, lipoprotein, and apolipoprotein (apo) A-I-containing high-density lipoprotein (HDL) subpopulation profiles of 86 coronary heart disease (CHD) patients. Patients with established CHD, and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (C)>130 mg/dl, and triglyceride (TG)<400 mg/dl, were treated with atorvastatin 20, 40, and 80 mg/day and one of the other four statins at 20, 40, and when available 80 mg/day in increasing doses (4 weeks of each dose) in a randomized crossover fashion. There was an 8-week placebo controlled washout period between different drug treatments. All five statins on each dose resulted in significant reductions in total- and LDL-C compared to placebo treatment. There were also decreases in plasma TG and increases in HDL-C and apoA-I concentrations, but not all treatments changed these parameters significantly. Each statin except fluvastatin improved the HDL subpopulation profile by increasing the concentrations of the large, cholesterol-rich, LpA-I alpha-1 and prealpha-1 HDL subpopulations. CHD patients have significantly lower concentration of the large, LpA-I alpha-1 HDL particles compared to controls. Our data indicate that statins which are the most effective in lowering LDL-C and TG are also the most effective agents in modifying the HDL subpopulation profile in CHD patients towards the patterns found in healthy individuals. The order of efficacy of statins in increasing alpha-1 HDL subpopulation was: atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin and fluvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12205648
In a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, we investigated whether statins alter cholesterol metabolites and reduce Abeta levels in the cerebrospinal fluid of 44 patients with Alzheimer's disease. Individuals were given up to 80mg simvastatin daily or placebo for 26 weeks. Overall, simvastatin did not significantly alter cerebrospinal fluid levels of Abeta40 and Abeta42. In post hoc analysis, simvastatin significantly decreased Abeta40 levels in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with mild Alzheimer's disease. The reduction of Abeta40 correlated with the reduction of 24S-hydroxycholesterol. These changes were not observed in more severely affected patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12207553
Elevated triglycerides and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels are more important coronary risk factors in women, and elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels less important in women, than men. There is clear-cut evidence in clinical trials that the benefit of cholesterol lowering in women and men is virtually identical. Modifiers of lipids and lipoproteins in women include diabetes mellitus, bodyweight and its distribution, and menopausal status. Diabetes is a more powerful predictor of risk in women than men. This may relate to the importance of elevated triglycerides as a risk factor in women, and to the effects of lipoprotein glycosylation, which lead to increased susceptibility to arterial deposition of LDL and decreased reverse cholesterol transport with HDL. Therapy for lipoprotein disorders in women and men is identical. For the overwhelming majority of patients, treatment with statin therapy is both highly efficacious and well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208152
Many of the wide-ranging health benefits conferred by statin therapy are mediated, not by reductions in LDL cholesterol, but rather by inhibition of isoprenylation reactions essential to the activation of Rho family GTPases; this may be the mechanism primarily responsible for the favorable impact of statins on risk for ischemic stroke, senile dementia, and fractures, as well as the anti-hypertensive and platelet-stabilizing actions of these drugs. Indeed, the extent of these benefits is such as to suggest that most adults would be wise to take statins; however, owing to the significant expense of statin therapy, as well as to the potential for dangerous side effects that mandates regular physician follow-up, this strategy appears impractical. However, policosanol, a mixture of long-chain aliphatic alcohols extractable from sugar cane wax, has shown cholesterol-lowering potency comparable to that of statins, and yet appears to be devoid of toxic risk. Recent evidence indicates that policosanol down-regulates cellular expression of HMG-CoA reductase, and thus has the potential to suppress isoprenylation reactions much like statins do. Consistent with this possibility, the results of certain clinical and animal studies demonstrate that policosanol has many effects analogous to those of statins that are not likely explained by reductions of LDL cholesterol. However, unlike statins, policosanol does not directly inhibit HMG-CoA reductase, and even in high concentrations it fails to down-regulate this enzyme by more than 50% - thus likely accounting for the safety of this nutraceutical. In light of the fact that policosanol is quite inexpensive and is becoming available as a non-prescription dietary supplement, it may represent a practical resource that could enable the general public to enjoy health benefits comparable to those conferred by statins. In a long-term clinical study enrolling patients with significant symptomatic coronary disease, Esselstyn has demonstrated that a low-fat, whole-food vegan diet, coupled with sufficient statin therapy to maintain serum cholesterol below 150 mg/dL, can stop the progression of coronary disease and virtually eliminate further risk for heart attack. A comparable regimen, in which policosanol is used in place of statins, may represent a practical strategy whereby nearly everyone willing to commit to health-protective eating can either prevent coronary disease, or prevent pre-existing coronary disease from progressing to a life-threatening event.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208171
Hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and coronary artery disease are among the risk factors of cerebrovascular accidents. After age, hypertension is the most powerful stroke risk factor. Abnormalities of serum lipids are regarded as risk factors for cerebrovascular accidents. A significant reduction in stroke risk among persons treated with cholesterol-reducing medicines known as statins are reported. Stroke risk nearly doubles in those with antecedent coronary artery disease. Moreover, polycythemia and high hematocrit levels are considered to be potential stroke risk factors. Minor thalassemia is associated with decreased prevalence of arterial hypertension and myocardial infarction (the second effect observed only in males.) Total cholesterol and LDL levels are lower in minor thalassemics, as is the blood viscosity. Therefore, it could be hypothesized that minor thalassemia could afford some protection against cerebrovascular accidents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208415
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208470
Interleukin-8 (IL-8) is a potent chemotactic factor that has been implicated in atherogenesis. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) may reduce the cardiovascular risk and vulnerability of atherosclerotic plaque through nonlipid mechanisms such as inhibition of cytokine expression. In this study, we investigated the effects of statins on IL-8 synthesis in human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Addition of angiotensin II (Ang II) increased IL-8 production in VSMCs in a time (0-24 h)- and dose (10(-8)-10(-6) mol/l)-dependent manner with increased IL-8 mRNA accumulation. The Ang II type 1 receptor (AT1R) antagonist candesartan, but not the Ang II type 2 receptor (AT2R) antagonist PD123319, significantly blocked Ang II-induced IL-8 production. Addition of fluvastatin decreased the basal and Ang II-induced IL-8 production in VSMCs in a dose (10(-8)-10(-5) mol/l)-dependent manner with a decrease in IL-8 mRNA accumulation. The effect of fluvastatin on IL-8 production was completely reversed in the presence of mevalonate or geranylgeranyl-pyrophosphate, but not in the presence of squalene or farnesyl-pyrophosphate. Lipophilic cerivastatin also significantly decreased IL-8 production, while hydrophilic pravastatin showed no effect on IL-8 levels. In conclusion, we demonstrated for the first time that Ang II increased IL-8 production and fluvastatin decreased the basal and Ang II-induced IL-8 production in human VSMCs. These findings suggested that Ang II may exacerbate atherosclerosis through induction of IL-8 in VSMCs, while statins may exert therapeutic effects by modulating IL-8 synthesis in patients with atherosclerotic disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208479
Animal and human studies have shown that the biosynthesis of cholesterol exhibits diurnal periodicity with nocturnal increases in the level of cholesterol precursors. Dietary cholesterol, which increases the intracellular pool of cholesterol and plasma cholesterol levels, has been shown to blunt the nocturnal increases in cholesterol biosynthesis. Patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) have very high levels of plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) due to their reduced ability to metabolize LDL particles. The present studies were carried out to determine whether diurnal variations in cholesterol synthesis occur in FH patients and to test the effects of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl CoA (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors on the diurnal cycle of cholesterol biosynthesis in these patients. Diurnal rates of cholesterol synthesis were assessed by measuring the plasma concentrations of mevalonate, an intermediate in the pathway of cholesterol biosynthesis. Female FH patients exhibited a diurnal pattern in plasma mevalonate levels similar to that previously reported in controls with peak values occurring at night. Treatment with lovastatin and simvastatin (40 mg b.i.d.) significantly reduced 24-h mean plasma mevalonate levels from baseline values. Administration of lovastatin in the evening reduced the nocturnal increases in mevalonate levels, and the administration of simvastatin completely abolished the nighttime rise. These results demonstrate that inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis by lovastatin and simvastatin modifies the normal diurnal rhythm of cholesterol biosynthesis in female FH patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208481
To evaluate the contribution of the 46C>T polymorphism of the Factor XII (FXII) gene to risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) in the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) of men with high cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208482
Inflammatory markers have been demonstrated to be associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events. In this setting, C-reactive protein (CRP) was shown to add predictive value to cholesterol levels. We investigated hypercholesterolemic patients and related their inflammatory variables and their coagulation state focusing on factor VII, a coagulation protein which plays an established role in thrombogenesis. We examined the relationship between factor VII clotting activity (FVIIc), FVII antigen (FVIIAg) and activated FVII (FVIIa) levels against CRP, interleukin-6 soluble receptor (IL-6sR), P-selectin, soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and transforming growth factor-beta(1) (TGF-beta(1)), in fifty-eight hypercholesterolemic subjects. Patients were subjected to 6-8 weeks of lipid lowering treatment with diet or diet plus pravastatin (40 mg/day). Univariate analysis showed that FVII levels were positively associated with CRP (FVIIAg: r=0.56, P<0.0001; FVIIc: r=0.57, P<0.0001; FVIIa: r=0.39, P<0.001) and IL-6sR (FVIIAg: r=0.59, P<0.0001; FVIIc: r=0.52, P<0.0001; FVIIa: r=0.47; P<0.001). CRP was still correlated, at the baseline, with FVIIAg and FVIIc levels after multiple stepwise regression analysis (FVIIAg: P<0.0001; FVIIc: P<0.0001, respectively) and with FVIIAg at the end of lipid lowering treatment (P<0.0001). Our data indicate that the FVII level is independently associated with inflammatory variables and suggest their pathophysiological link in hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208585
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in patients aged 65 and above. Although elderly persons represent only 12.4% of the US population, they account for about a third of drug expenditures. However the appropriate use of cardiovascular medications in these patients has been shown to reduce the rate of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The normal aging and the disease process in the elderly result in significant changes at the structural and molecular level in the elderly. The changes that take place in the autonomic nervous system, the kidneys, and the liver in the elderly modify the metabolism and clinical effects of most medications. Elderly patients are also susceptible to side effects and adverse drug reactions. Physicians should have a clear understanding of the normal aging processes, the abnormal changes due to disease process and the changes in the pharmacology of drugs in the elderly to deliver proper care to the elderly patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208794
Creatine kinase (CK)-MB elevation after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has been associated with subsequent cardiac death. The patients at risk, the timing of risk, and potential treatment implications are uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208795
Postprandial hypertriglyceridemia and hyperglycemia are considered risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Evidence suggests that postprandial hypertriglyceridemia and hyperglycemia induce endothelial dysfunction through oxidative stress; however, the distinct role of these two factors is a matter of debate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12208797
The increase in C-reactive protein (CRP) during oral conjugated equine estrogen (CEE) may explain the initial excess of cardiovascular disease observed in clinical studies. Because the effect of transdermal estradiol (E2) on CRP is unclear, we compared CRP changes after 6 and 12 months of transdermal E2 and oral CEE in a randomized 2x2 retinoid-placebo trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12211217
To investigate the influence of orlistat on the pharmacokinetics of selected concomitant medications (amitriptyline, atorvastatin, cyclosporine, losartan, metformin, phentermine, and sibutramine) at or within two-fold of therapeutic doses, open-label, multiple-dose (for 6 or 7 days), randomized, two-period (except for cyclosporine, for which a three-way crossover design was used) crossover studies were performed in healthy volunteers ages 18 to 65 years, with a body mass index between 18 and 30 kg/m2. At steady state, blood samples were taken for measuring plasma concentrations of interacting drugs and/or active metabolites. Subjects were also evaluated for adverse events, vital signs, and clinical and laboratory safety. Treatments were compared for AUC0-24, Cmax, tmax, and t1/2 of selected concomitant medications (parent drugs and/or active metabolites). ANOVA was performed to assess the significance of the carry-over effect and provide the variance estimate for the 90% confidence intervals (CIs). With the exception of cyclosporine, whose absorption was reduced by approximately one-third, the results of the statistical analysis demonstrated equivalencefor the two primary parameters for all drugs studied: ratios of the log-transformed means for both AUC and Cmax were close to 1.00, with 90% CIs contained entirely within the bioequivalence region of 0.80 to 1.25; there were no clinically significant differences in t1/2 and tmax. There was a higher incidence of adverse events under treatment B (selective concomitant medications and orlistat) than under treatment A (selective concomitant medications alone); most of this difference was due to expected gastrointestinal adverse events known to occur with orlistat. Other adverse events were sporadic and unremarkable. All adverse events were either mild or moderate in intensity. There were no clinically relevant changes in vital signs or laboratory values. In conclusion, except for cyclosporine, there was no effect of orlistat on the pharmacokinetics of selective concomitant medications when these drugs were taken concomitantly with orlistat.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12211221
Rosuvastatin is a new HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor with unique pharmacologic and pharmacokinetic properties. It has additional HMG-CoA reductase enzyme-binding interactions that cause tighter binding, has substantial active transport into hepatocytes, and has the lowest IC50 for sterol synthesis in hepatocytes. Rosuvastatin 10 mg and 80 mg dosages have superior low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol-lowering efficacy as compared to atorvastatin 10 mg and 80 mg. Rosuvastatin 10 mghas also been shown to have superior LDL reductions to 20 mg of both simvastatin and pravastatin. This agent can raise high-density lipoprotein (HDL) 8% to 12% and lower triglycerides by 10% to 35%. Rosuvastatin is a hydrophilic agent with poor penetration in extrahepatic tissue such as human umbilical vein endothelial cells and fibroblasts. It also has a low potential for cytochrome P450 drug interactions and can be dosed in the morning or night. In conclusion, rosuvastatin is an agent with molecular alterations that provide it with unique pharmacologic and phannacokinetic effects. As such, it is a novel and unique HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for the treatment of hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12212758
To present a methodology for identifying specific medications for which pill splitting is clinically appropriate and cost saving, to present data from a commercial managed care population on current pill-splitting practices, and to estimate additional cost savings from extended use of this strategy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12215067
Micronised fenofibrate is a synthetic phenoxy-isobutyric acid derivative (fibric acid derivative) indicated for the treatment of dyslipidaemia. Recently, a new tablet formulation of micronised fenofibrate has become available with greater bioavailability than the older capsule formulation. The micronised fenofibrate 160mg tablet is bioequivalent to the 200mg capsule. The lipid-modifying profile of micronised fenofibrate 160mg (tablet) or 200mg (capsule) once daily is characterised by a decrease in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and total cholesterol (TC) levels, a marked reduction in plasma triglyceride (TG) levels and an increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. Micronised fenofibrate 200mg (capsule) once daily produced greater improvements in TG and, generally, in HDL-C levels than the hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors simvastatin 10 or 20 mg/day, pravastatin 20 mg/day or atorvastatin 10 or 40 mg/day. Combination therapy with micronised fenofibrate 200mg (capsule) once daily plus fluvastatin 20 or 40 mg/day or atorvastatin 40 mg/day was associated with greater reductions from baseline than micronised fenofibrate alone in TC and LDL-C levels. Similar or greater changes in HDL-C and TG levels were seen in combination therapy, compared with monotherapy, recipients. Micronised fenofibrate 200mg (capsule) once daily was associated with significantly greater improvements from baseline in TC, LDL-C, HDL-C and TG levels than placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus enrolled in the double-blind, randomised Diabetes Atherosclerosis Intervention Study (DAIS) [> or =3 years follow-up]. Moreover, angiography showed micronised fenofibrate was associated with significantly less progression of coronary atherosclerosis than placebo. Micronised fenofibrate has also shown efficacy in patients with metabolic syndrome, patients with HIV infection and protease inhibitor-induced hypertriglyceridaemia and patients with dyslipidaemia secondary to heart transplantation. Micronised fenofibrate was generally well tolerated in clinical trials. The results of a large (n = 9884) 12-week study indicated that gastrointestinal disorders are the most frequent adverse events associated with micronised fenofibrate therapy. Elevations in serum transaminase and creatine phosphokinase levels have been reported rarely with micronised fenofibrate. In conclusion, micronised fenofibrate improves lipid levels in patients with primary dyslipidaemia; the drug has particular efficacy with regards to reducing TG levels and raising HDL-C levels. Micronised fenofibrate is also effective in diabetic dyslipidaemia; as well as improving lipid levels, the drug reduced progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The results of large ongoing studies (e.g. FIELD with approximately 10 000 patients) will clarify whether the beneficial lipid-modifying effects of micronised fenofibrate result in a reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12215193
HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors(statins) have been shown, in three large randomized trials, to decrease adverse cardiac events in patients with clinically evident coronary artery disease. All of these trials have excluded patients with an acute coronary syndrome within the three months prior to enrollment. Statin therapy is thought to stabilize coronary plaque and decrease the risk of plaque rupture. Statins have been shown to quickly reduce levels of LDL-C in addition to altering systemic inflammatory responses, improving endothelial function, and reducing platelet aggregation and activation. These mechanisms are potentially beneficial in the setting of acute coronary syndromes, a time of profound plaque instability. There is a growing body of evidence supporting the early initiation of statin therapy in the setting of acute coronary syndromes. This paper reviews the available data from randomized-controlled trials and observational studies evaluating the effect of early statin initiation during, or soon following, an acute coronary syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12215472
Although oxidized lipoproteins may play an important role in the progression of atherosclerosis, no report has mentioned the significance of oxidized lipoprotein (a) (Lp[a]) in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. Initially, we compared the mitogenic actions of Lp(a) and oxidized Lp(a) on human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). Lp(a) significantly stimulated the growth of human VSMC in a dose-dependent manner, whereas oxidized Lp(a) showed a stronger stimulatory action on VSMC growth than native Lp(a). Interestingly, antioxidants probucol and fluvastatin inhibited the oxidation of Lp(a). Moreover, the stimulatory effect of oxidized Lp(a) on human VSMC growth was significantly inhibited by probucol. Finally, we elucidated the molecular mechanisms of how Lp(a) stimulated the growth of VSMC. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), as those controlled by kinases, modulate critical cellular functions such as cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis, was transiently phosphorylated by oxidized Lp(a) as well as native Lp(a) from 5 minutes, and the phosphorylation disappeared within 30 minutes. The degree of ERK phosphorylation by oxidized Lp(a) was much higher than that by native Lp(a). Administration of a specific inhibitor of MEK, PD 98059, significantly attenuated VSMC growth induced by native Lp(a) or oxidized Lp(a) in a dose-dependent manner (P<0.01). The current study demonstrated that oxidized Lp(a) is more potent than native Lp(a) in stimulating VSMC growth. Oxidized Lp(a) may play an important role in the pathogenesis of vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12215610
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12222546
To compare the efficacy of daily simvastatin administration with that of alternate-day therapy at double the daily dose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12222700
To determine whether statin therapy initiated early in acute myocardial infarction together with thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction results in clinical benefit through early plaque stabilization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12223056
Variagenics, Inc. develops molecular diagnostic tests by identifying genetic markers associated with response to cancer therapies, with the goal of optimizing patient care. Toward this end, the company analyzes genetic variations in both normal and tumor cells, including SNPs, haplotypes, loss of heterozygosity, and gene expression levels. The company's approach of analyzing multiple types of genetic variations increases the likelihood of finding significant associations with drug response and successfully developing diagnostics. Variagenics is pursuing marker identification and diagnostic development through both biopharmaceutical collaborations and internal research programs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12224342
The third edition of guidelines from the National Cholesterol Education Program Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel III [ATP III]) is discussed. The most recent classifications for low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high-density-lipoprotein (HDL), total cholesterol, and triglycerides are provided. LDL cholesterol goals, cardiovascular risk assessment, therapeutic goals, and pharmacologic treatment options are discussed for both primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. In addition, the management of dyslipidemia in patients with diabetes and metobolic syndrome is addressed, and the differences between the old and new guidelines are highlighted. The ATP III guidelines may help health care professionals to better screen and categorize patients on the basis of their coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. The updated guidelines recommend more intensive lipid-lowering treatments for primary prevention in patients with two or more risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12224668
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12224718
We present a brief summary of the 10 greatest cardiologic developments and discoveries of the 20th century Described are electrocardiography; preventive cardiology and the Framingham Study; "lipid hypotheses" and atherosclerosis; coronary care units; echocardiography; thrombolytic therapy; cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography; open-heart surgery; automatic implantable cardiac defibrillators; and coronary angioplasty. These topics are the personal choices of the authors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12225707
We assessed the influence of statin therapy given after the procedure on one-year survival of patients treated with coronary artery stenting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12227864
Mutations in the LDL receptor (LDLR) cause familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) in an autosomal dominant manner. The condition frequently progresses to coronary atherosclerosis. We describe a patient with FH, but without ischaemic heart disease, who had a novel frameshift mutation (327insC) in exon 4 of the LDLR gene. This mutation introduced a premature termination codon (TGA, codon 158). The patient was a 59-year-old man who had presented with hypercholesterolaemia and a plasma total cholesterol (TC) concentration of 12.2 mmol/L at age 44 years. The mutation 327insC in this patient was heterozygous and hypercholesterolaemia was common within his family. Despite taking lipid-lowering medications (probucol and pravastatin) for more than 20 years, his TC concentration hardly fell below 7.8 mmol/L. However, neither the patient nor anyone else in his family developed characteristic symptoms of ischaemic heart disease or xanthoma. This patient was discovered by an intensive mutation survey among 22 unrelated Japanese with FH mainly in the Kanto area of Japan, suggesting a low incidence of the mutation in the area.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12228849
The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and dyslipidaemia have been shown to be involved in the genesis and progression of atherosclerosis. Manipulation of the RAS has been effective in modifying human coronary artery disease progression. Similarly, the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors or statins have been shown to reduce cholesterol and lower cardiovascular events in primary and secondary prevention trials in coronary artery disease. In addition to their primary mode of action, statins and blockers of the RAS possess common additional properties that include restoration of endothelial activity and inhibition of cellular proliferation. This article reviews the current data on the common properties of these classes of drugs in which the beneficial effects extend beyond their antihypertensive and lipid-lowering properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12231607
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12233907
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12234946
The early response of C-reactive protein to initiation of a hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) is not known. The purpose of this study was to determine the rate at which highly sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels change after initiation of simvastatin and whether this occurs independently of the change in LDL cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12235098
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12235178
Atorvastatin, a synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor used for the treatment of hyperlipidemia and the prevention of coronary artery disease, significantly lowers plasma cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. It also reduces total plasma triglyceride and apoE concentrations. In view of the direct involvement of apoE in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, we have investigated the effect of atorvastatin treatment (40 mg/day) on in vivo rates of plasma apoE production and catabolism in six patients with combined hyperlipidemia using a primed constant infusion of deuterated leucine. Atorvastatin treatment resulted in a significant decrease (i.e., 30-37%) in levels of total triglyceride, cholesterol, LDL-C, and apoB in all six patients. Total plasma apoE concentration was reduced from 7.4 +/- 0.9 to 4.3 +/- 0.2 mg/dl (-38 +/- 8%, P < 0.05), predominantly due to a decrease in VLDL apoE (3.4 +/- 0.8 vs. 1.7 +/- 0.2 mg/dl; -42 +/- 11%) and IDL/LDL apoE (1.9 +/- 0.3 vs. 0.8 +/- 0.1 mg/dl; -57 +/- 6%). Total plasma lipoprotein apoE transport (i.e., production) was significantly reduced from 4.67 +/- 0.39 to 3.04 +/- 0.51 mg/kg/day (-34 +/- 10%, P < 0.05) and VLDL apoE transport was reduced from 3.82 +/- 0.67 to 2.26 +/- 0.42 mg/kg/day (-36 +/- 10%, P = 0.057). Plasma and VLDL apoE residence times and HDL apoE kinetic parameters were not significantly affected by drug treatment. Percentage decreases in VLDL apoE concentration and VLDL apoE production were significantly correlated with drug-induced reductions in VLDL triglyceride concentration (r = 0.99, P < 0.001; r = 0.88, P < 0.05, respectively, n = 6). Our results demonstrate that atorvastatin causes a pronounced decrease in total plasma and VLDL apoE concentrations and a significant decrease in plasma and VLDL apoE rates of production in patients with combined hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12236852
The primary aims of these two single-centre, randomized, evaluator-blind, placebo/positive-controlled, parallel-group studies were to evaluate the potential for pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interaction between ezetimibe 0.25, 1, or 10 mg and simvastatin 10 mg (Study 1), and a pharmacodynamic interaction between ezetimibe 10 mg and simvastatin 20 mg (Study 2). Evaluation of the tolerance of the coadministration of ezetimibe and simvastatin was a secondary objective.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12236985
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12241128
Myopathy in its severe forms including rhabdomyolysis is a very rare adverse effect occurring during monotherapy with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ('statins') and is associated with pronounced signs of oxidation injury. This has been found at a local (muscle) as well as at a systemic level (blood). Several lines of evidence indicate that even mild forms of myopathy during statin treatment may be associated with in vivo oxidation injury. In contrast, statin therapy has been shown to be associated with a decrease in oxidation injury.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12243373
Homocysteine is an intermediate sulfur-containing amino acid formed during intracellular metabolism of methionine. Circulating homocyst(e)ine can be increased by genetic deficiency of enzymatic pathways involved in its catabolism as well as by environmental factors including nutritional deficiencies, life style factors, physiological conditions, drugs and some diseases, which mainly induce deficiency of folate, vitamin B12 and vitamin B6. Therefore plasma homocyst(e)ine can be reduced by vitamin therapy with folate and vitamin B12. Although hyperhomocyst(e)inemia exerts a prothrombotic and proatherosclerotic effect, its relevance in the genesis of the atherosclerotic lesions, as well in the first occurrence of cardiovascular events in normotensive and even more so in hypertensive patients is still to be established. However available data indicate that hyperhomocyst(e)inemia could be an independent risk factor for the recurrence of cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease and in elderly high risk patients. Finally, the possibility that a reduction in plasma homocyst(e)ine induced by vitamin therapy can diminish the risk of cardiovascular events is under evaluation in several controlled longitudinal studies focusing mainly on secondary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12243374
In a quantitative overview of published trials, we investigated whether some pharmacological properties of antihypertensive drugs, besides reduction in blood pressure, explain cardiovascular outcomes in hypertensive or high-risk patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12243615
To evaluate the data regarding the use of antibiotic therapy for the prevention of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12243846
The introduction of the hydroxy methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) in 1987 was a major advance in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease. Several landmark clinical trials have demonstrated the benefit of lipid lowering with statins for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD), namely The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), Cholesterol And Recurrent Events (CARE), Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischemic Disease (LIPID), West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) and Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study (AFCAPS/TexCAPS). Although it is widely accepted that the majority of clinical benefit obtained with statins is a direct result of their lipid-lowering properties, these agents appear to display additional cholesterol-independent or pleiotropic effects on various aspects of cardiovascular disease, including improving endothelial function, decreasing vascular inflammation and enhancing plaque stability. Although the full impact of statin therapy on each of these processes is not fully understood, ongoing studies with current and new statins are likely to shed further light on the potential cholesterol-independent benefits of these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12269853
Rosuvastatin is a hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor used in the treatment of patients with dyslipidaemia. Rosuvastatin is not extensively metabolised and has a low propensity for drug interactions. In well designed trials of between 6 and 52 weeks' duration, rosuvastatin was superior to atorvastatin, simvastatin and pravastatin in improving the lipid profile of patients with hypercholesterolaemia. In a 1-year dose-titration study, rosuvastatin 13.4mg daily (mean dose) allowed more patients to achieve US National Cholesterol Education Program (Adult Treatment panel II)[NCEP] target low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels than atorvastatin 20.8mg daily (98 vs 87%) with the difference most marked in high-risk patients (97 vs 61%). Similarly, when compared with pravastatin and simvastatin 20 mg/day in a further 1-year trial, 88% of rosuvastatin recipients [9.5 and 13.8 mg/day (mean doses)] achieved NCEP target serum LDL-cholesterol levels compared with 60 and 73% of pravastatin and simvastatin recipients, respectively, with the difference more marked in high-risk patients. In further clinical trials, rosuvastatin improved the lipid profile of patients with heterozygous or homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia or mixed dyslipidaemias. Rosuvastatin was well tolerated in clinical trials of up to 1 years' duration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12270465
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12270846
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12270864
This report describes the effect of intensive cholesterol lowering with atorvastatin on the incidence of nonfatal stroke, a secondary end point, in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. The primary end point, a composite of death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, resuscitated cardiac arrest, or recurrent symptomatic myocardial ischemia with objective evidence requiring emergency rehospitalization, was reduced from 17.4% in the placebo group to 14.8% in the atorvastatin group over the 16 weeks of the trial (P=0.048).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12296991
1. The pharmacokinetics and disposition of rosuvastatin, a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, were investigated following single administration of (14)C-rosuvastatin in the Sprague-Dawley rat. 2. Following oral administration of (14)C-rosuvastatin at 1, 5 and 25 mg kg(-1), the C(max) and AUC of the radioactivity in the plasma increased more than the increase in dose ratio. 3. Excretion of radioactivity was 98.0% of the dose in the faeces and 0.4% in the urine up to 168 h after oral administration in the intact rat, and was 55.1% in the bile and 0.5% in the urine up to 48 h post-dosing in the bile duct-cannulated rat. The unchanged compound mainly accounted for the radioactivity in the bile and faeces. 4. In the tissue distribution study, the concentration of the radioactivity in the liver was markedly higher than those in the other tissues, and the radioactivity concentration ratios of the liver to the plasma were between 8 and 25 up to 48 h after oral administration. The liver-specific distribution of rosuvastatin was similarly recognized in whole-body autoradiography. 5. Metabolic profiling studies indicated that rosuvastatin would not be metabolized by CYP enzymes. 6. These results clarified that rosuvastatin selectively distributed in the liver - the target organ - and was excreted in the bile mainly as the unchanged compound.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12298341
Definite evidence has been established, that coronary patients benefit from appropriate secondary prevention measures, as recommended by the European and National Guidelines. EuroAspire I (1995) and EuroAspire II (1999) were surveys aimed to evaluate the state of the implementation of guidelines into the every-day medical practice in several European countries, including Czech Republic. We wondered to what extent the practice in secondary prevention of Czech physicians, since the guidelines were published, changed during 5 years, to pursue the targets.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12325048
The dementias of late life now constitute a major public health challenge to our society.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12325099
Data monitoring is a critical component of the conduct of clinical trials that provide the evidence of efficacy and safety of investigational drugs. These trials may be conducted either by a pharmaceutical sponsor or by the government, especially those large trials that assess the impact of therapies on serious morbidity and/or mortality. While not extensive, I will review a regulatory history of FDA's evolving concerns and positions on data monitoring. I will review the key aspects of data monitoring and interim analysis of clinical trials contained in the recently published International Conference on Harmonization's statistical guidance as well as some other issues being considered for a draft guidance on data monitoring. Finally, some suggestions for improving and enhancing tools and statistical methods for monitoring clinical trials for safety assessment will be offered. This latter area deserves more consideration by statisticians than it has received to date.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12325106
This paper reviews previously published work showing that the impact of including covariates in models used to estimate the magnitude of treatment effects in long-term clinical trials is different from what would be predicted from results for the normal linear model. Typically, models with and without covariates cannot simultaneously be valid. A case is made for the use of data from clinical trials to model the future risk and potential benefits of treatment in individual subjects. The methods and results are illustrated using data from the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12325110
Although radical changes in drug regulation are rare (e.g., the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 and the 1962 amendment to the Act creating an effectiveness requirement), regulations and guidance do evolve significantly in the face of new problems and accumulating experience. Recent changes have been driven by the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (FDAMA), user fee legislation, the International Conference on Harmonization, recent safety related drug withdrawals, and concerns about trial ethics and investigator conflict of interest. FDAMA and guidance developed in response to it has helped circumstances in which FDA would rely on a single study to support effectiveness and the circumstances in which surrogate endpoints could support approval. An ICH Document 'Choice of control group and related design issues in clinical trials' focussed attention on the ethics of placebo controls (acceptable, even if there is existing therapy, when the placebo-treated patient will suffer no irreversible injury) and the design of 'equivalence' or 'non-inferiority' trials. There has been greatly increased attention to obtaining good dose-response information and to assessing need for modifying treatment in demographic (age, gender, race) and concomitant disease (renal or hepatic function abnormalities) subgroups, and in assessing drug-drug interactions. Other important trends are increasing reliance on non-U.S. data, increasing numbers of FDA-industry meetings during drug development, and new focus on risk assessment and risk management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12349850
Resistance to insulin-mediated glucose uptake by peripheral tissues is a cardinal defect in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Insulin resistance is also common among nondiabetic individuals, and may be an important risk factor for stroke in both populations. The authors review the definition, epidemiology, and treatment of insulin resistance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12351996
The inherited disorders of muscle metabolism affect both substrate utilization and the final intramitochondrial oxidation through the Krebs cycle and the respiratory chain. Almost every step of these complex biochemical pathways can be affected by inborn errors, whose expression depends on peculiar tissue-specific or systemic gene expression. This review updates current knowledge in this broad field.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12352024
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12353340
There have been few reports on the efficacy and safety of statins in the Asian population. The study objectives were to compare the efficacy and safety of atorvastatin and simvastatin in Asian people.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12353945
Muscle symptoms in patients who are treated with statins and have normal creatine kinase levels are not well understood.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12354174
In a randomized, double-blind trial in 3086 patients with unstable angina pectoris or non-Q wave myocardial infarction we investigated if 80 mg of atorvastatin daily could improve outcome of cardiovascular events during a short period of time (16 weeks) compared with placebo. Baseline LDL cholesterol was 3.2 mmol L-1 (124 mg dL-1) and decreased by 40% to 1.9 mmol L-1 (72 mg dL-1) during atorvastatin treatment. The primary endpoint, which was a composite of death, non-fatal acute myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest with resuscitation or recurrent symptomatic myocardial ischaemia with objective evidence and requiring emergency rehospitalization occurred in 228 patients (14.8%) in the atorvastatin group and 269 patients (17.4%) in the placebo group. The relative risk was 0.84 and 95% confidence interval was 0.70-1.00 (P = 0.048). Thus for patients with acute coronary syndromes, lipid-lowering therapy with high dose atorvastatin reduces recurrent ischaemic events in the short-term. A possible mechanism behind this rapid clinical effect induced by statin treatment is on inflammatory processes. Recent studies strongly suggest that acute T-cell activation is involved in the pathogenesis of unstable angina. In another study we investigated whether circulating T cells showed signs of activation in patients with stable angina pectoris (SA). Systemic venous blood samples were taken from 38 men with SA and 42 healthy controls. The T-cell receptor expression was assessed by three-colour flow cytometry using monoclonal antibodies against CD3,CD4, CD8, CD25 and human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-DR. Soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) was measured as the circulating form in serum. Levels of circulating CD3+ and CD4+ T cells tended to be higher in patients compared with controls. Patients were also shown to have a significant increase in CD4+ T cells expressing the activation markers CD25 (P < 0.05) and HLA-DR (P < 0.01). Furthermore, serum levels of sIL-2R were significantly higher (P < 0.001) in patients than in controls. We also observed that the T-cell response was more pronounced in patients without simvastatin treatment (n = 18) compared with simvastatin-treated patients (n = 20). In conclusion, our findings indicate that a continuous immune system activation takes place in patients with chronic angina pectoris, predominantly involving proliferation of CD4+ T cells. Statin treatment seems to be able to decrease this inflammatory response.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12354446
We examined the possible effects of a novel 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, rosuvastatin, on endothelial nitric oxide (NO) production and myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12354476
Treatments for idiopathic membranous nephropathy, a common cause of nephrotic syndrome, can be very toxic. In view of the pathogenic potential of B cells in this disease, we studied the effects of four weekly infusions of rituximab (375 mg/m(2)-- the monoclonal antibody to B-cell antigen CD20--in eight patients who had idiopathic membranous nephropathy with persistent nephrotic syndrome. At weeks 4 and 20, urinary protein decreased from mean (SE) 8.6 g/24 h (1.4) to 3.8 (0.8) and 3.7 (0.9), respectively (p<0.0001). At week 20, albuminuria and albumin fractional clearance decreased by 70% and 65%, and serum albumin increased by 31%. CD20 B lymphocytes fell below normal ranges up to study end. The short-term risk-benefit profile of rituximab seems more favourable to that of any other immunosuppressive drug used to treat idiopathic membranous nephropathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12355111
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356379
The effects of atorvastatin at 20, 40, and 80 mg/day on plasma lipoprotein subclasses were examined in a randomized, placebo-controlled fashion over 24 weeks in 103 patients in the fasting state who had coronary heart disease (CHD) with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels >130 mg/dl. The effects of placebo and atorvastatin 40 mg/day were examined in 88 subjects with CHD in the fasting state and 4 hours after a meal rich in saturated fat and cholesterol. These findings were compared with results in 88 age- and gender-matched control subjects. Treatment at the 20, 40, and 80 mg/day dose levels resulted in LDL cholesterol reductions of 38%, 46%, and 52% (all p <0.0001), triglyceride reductions of 22%, 26%, and 30% (all p <0.0001), and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol increases of 6%, 5%, and 3%, respectively (all p <0.05 at the 20- and 40-mg doses). The lowest total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio was observed with the 80 mg/day dose of atorvastatin (p <0.0001 vs placebo). Remnant-like particle (RLP) cholesterol decreased 33%, 34%, and 32%, respectively (all p <0.0001). Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] cholesterol decreased 9%, 16%, and 21% (all p <0.0001), although Lp(a) mass increased 9%, 8%, and 10%, respectively (all p <0.01). In the fed state, atorvastatin 40 mg/day normalized direct LDL cholesterol (29% below controls), triglycerides (8% above controls), and RLP cholesterol (10% below controls), with similar reductions in the fasting state. At this same dose level, atorvastatin treatment resulted in 39%, 35%, and 59% decreases in fasting triglyceride in large, medium, and small very LDLs, as well as 45%, 33%, and 47% reductions in cholesterol in large, medium, and small LDL, respectively, as assessed by nuclear magnetic resonance (all significant, p <0.05), normalizing these particles versus controls (77 cases vs 77 controls). Moreover, cholesterol in large HDL was increased 37% (p <0.001) by this treatment. Our data indicate that atorvastatin treatment normalizes levels of all classes of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and LDL in both the fasting and fed states in patients with CHD compared with control subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356386
Statins are regarded as efficacious in general but there is a wide variation in individual response. We sought demographic and lifestyle factors that influenced the response to pravastatin 40 mg/day in moderately hypercholesterolemic men in the West Of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS). Changes in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol after 6 months of treatment were examined in 1,604 highly compliant subjects. LDL cholesterol decreased by a mean of 30.4%. The magnitude of the change was influenced, albeit to a small extent, by baseline plasma triglyceride levels and alcohol intake and age; subjects with low plasma triglyceride levels, older subjects, and subjects with low alcohol intake had the greatest reductions. The mean response in HDL cholesterol in the group was an 8.3% increase (0.09 mmol/L). The percent increase in HDL cholesterol was affected by baseline HDL level, plasma triglyceride levels, decrease in plasma triglyceride levels during the administration of pravastatin, and body mass index. The absolute increase in HDL cholesterol was influenced by the decrease in plasma triglyceride levels, body mass index, and alcohol intake. All of these associations were weak (r <0.2) although highly significant. In conclusion, plasma lipid phenotype, obesity, and alcohol consumption appear to influence the response of LDL and HDL cholesterol to statin treatment. The absolute increment in HDL cholesterol is relatively constant across a range of baseline values, hence the percent change is largely a function of the starting value.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356387
The objective of this study was to evaluate whether plant sterol-ester margarine has an additive or interactive effect on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reduction when ingested in combination with a statin drug. This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind study with 4 parallel treatment arms in a balanced 2 x 2 factorial design. The 4 daily treatment options were: (1) placebo plus regular margarine 25 g (n = 38); (2) placebo plus sterol-ester margarine 25 g (2 g of plant sterol) (n = 39); (3) cerivastatin 400 microg plus regular margarine 25 g (n = 38); and (4) cerivastatin 400 microg plus sterol-ester margarine 25 g (n = 37). The study was conducted in men and women with primary hypercholesterolemia with baseline LDL cholesterol >/=97 mg/dl (mean 206). The primary efficacy parameter was the percent change in LDL cholesterol between baseline and at the end of 4 weeks' treatment. Cerivastatin (vs placebo) reduced LDL cholesterol by 32% (95% confidence intervals 28% to 36%, p <0.0001) and sterol-ester margarine (vs regular margarine) by 8% (95% confidence interval 4% to 12%, p <0.0001). The effect of sterol-ester margarine and cerivastatin together was additive (39% reduction in LDL cholesterol), but there was no significant interactive effect between sterol-ester margarine and cerivastatin (p = 0.29). The treatments were generally well tolerated with no major differences in adverse events between groups. In subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia, statin and sterol-ester margarine used together produce a purely additive effect on LDL cholesterol reduction. The addition of sterol-ester margarine to statin therapy offers LDL cholesterol reduction equivalent to doubling the dose of statin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356389
After menopause, most healthy women show an impairment of peripheral vasodilation and an increase of plasma cholesterol levels. Statins have been shown to improve endothelial function in hypercholesterolemic men and women. The present study tests whether atorvastatin (10 mg) influences endothelium-dependent vasodilation in postmenopausal normocholesterolemic women. Twenty-eight healthy, postmenopausal women (mean age 51 +/- 2 years) with serum total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol within the desirable range entered a double-blind, single-crossover study. Postmenopausal women were randomized to receive either atorvastatin (10 mg/day) or placebo for 10 days and then crossed to the complementary treatment. Endothelium-dependent and -independent responses were assessed by means of strain-gauge plethysmography before and after intra-arterial infusion of acethylcholine (ACh) and sodium nitroprusside, in comparison to physiologic saline. The nitric oxide pathway was evaluated by repeating the infusion of ACh during admininstration of L-arginine and (G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA). Serum lipoproteins were not significantly modified by the active treatment. The vasodilation induced by ACh was significantly higher in the atorvastatin-treated women compared with the placebo-treated group (24 +/- 3 vs 13 +/- 2 ml/100 ml tissue/min, p <0.01). In contrast, responses to the endothelium-independent vasodilator sodium nitroprusside were not significantly modified by atorvastatin. The ACh-stimulated vasodilation induced by atorvastatin was additionally potentiated by L-arginine (800 +/- 105% vs 370 +/- 60%, p <0.05) and blunted by L-NMMA. No correlation was found between changes in plasma cholesterol and improvement in forearm blood flow. Our data show that the beneficial effect of atorvastatin on endothelium-dependent vasodilation is independent from changes in the lipid profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356401
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356402
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356403
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356647
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12356809
The study was a prospective observational trial carried out to assess the clarithromycin-digoxin interaction in elderly patients chronically taking digoxin. Digoxin concentrations were determined before and after concomitant treatment with clarithromycin. A Bayesian approach was used to calculate digoxin pharmacokinetics. In the seven patients who were studied there was a significant increase in digoxin concentration after 4-7 days of clarithromycin treatment; digoxin clearance and elimination rate constant were 56-60% lower and elimination half-life was 82% longer. The pharmacokinetic clarithromycin-digoxin interaction in the elderly may be much more frequent than has been assumed up to now.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12357127
Coronary heart disease is a leading cause of death in industrialized nations. Hyperlipidemia with elevated serum total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides is a known major cardiovascular risk factor. HDL cholesterol is considered to be protective, so low HDL cholesterol is being recognized as an independent cardiovascular risk factor that contributes to the development of atherosclerosis and related adverse cardiovascular events. The recognition of insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome is a step further in understanding these risk factors. Attempts at reducing serum cholesterol with different strategies in the past have met with limited success until the development of statins. The advent of statins has revolutionized the management of hyperlipidemia. The post-statins era has seen major clinical trials demonstrating the benefit of cholesterol reduction in the setting of both primary and secondary prevention. In general, there appears to be a 25% to 40% relative risk reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events such as death, myocardial infarction, and stroke. The recent megatrials further suggest that aggressive management of cholesterol in patients with high cardiovascular risk may be beneficial. Though the concept of the-lower-the-better may be looming, the question of "How low is good enough?" remains controversial. The results of recent megatrials such as the Heart Protection Study go a step further than the NCEP guidelines and suggest that statin therapy may benefit patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease regardless of their baseline values. We summarize the results of the available large clinical trials in our understanding of the management of dyslipidemia in a setting of primary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12358579
In contrast to curative therapies, preventive therapies are administered to largely healthy individuals over long periods. The risk-benefit and cost-benefit ratios are more likely to be unfavourable, making treatment decisions difficult. Drug trials provide insufficient information for treatment decisions, as they are conducted on highly selected populations over short durations, estimate only relative benefits of treatment and offer little information on risks and costs. Epidemiological modelling is a method of combining evidence from observational epidemiology and clinical trials to assist in clinical and health policy decision-making. It can estimate absolute benefits, risks and costs of long-term preventive strategies, and thus allow their precise targeting to individuals for whom they are safest and most cost-effective. Epidemiological modelling also allows explicit information about risks and benefits of therapy to be presented to patients, facilitating informed decision-making.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12360153
Although statins have been shown to be beneficial in the management of hyperlipidemia and the reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, rates of major cardiovascular events remain high despite their use. Inhibition of the acyl coenzyme A: cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) enzyme in the arterial wall may prevent excess accumulation of cholesteryl esters in macrophages. In addition to ACAT inhibitor monotherapy, combination of a statin with an ACAT inhibitor may be a promising approach to further prevent the progression of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12360164
The objective of this pilot study was to evaluate the comparative efficacy of alternate-day dosing of atorvastatin compared with the standard once-daily dose based on mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) reduction from baseline at 6 and 12 weeks of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12361185
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12361824
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12361836
Vein grafts have been used as bypass conduits for coronary artery disease since the 1960s. This widely used treatment, however, is complicated by the development of changes in the vein graft, which resemble atherosclerosis and are often termed as such. They occur at about 10 years, which leads to the need for reoperation in some patients. The purpose of this review is to summarize the knowledge regarding the pathophysiology of vein graft "atherosclerosis," as well as promising new treatments for this disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12362926
The effects of age and gender on the pharmacokinetics of rosuvastatin (Crestor) were assessed in healthy young (18-35 years) and elderly (> 65 years) males and females in this open, nonrandomized, noncontrolled, parallel-group trial. Sixteen males and 16 females (8 young and elderly volunteers per gender group) were enrolled. Mean (range) ages were 24 (18-33) and 68 (65-73) years for young and elderly volunteers, respectively. Volunteers were given a single oral 40 mg dose of rosuvastatin. Blood samples for measurement of rosuvastatin plasma concentration were collected up to 96 hours following dosing. Age and gender effects were assessed by constructing 90% confidence intervals (CIs) around the ratios of young/elderly and male/female geometric least square means (glsmeans) for AUC(0-t) and Cmax (derived from ANOVA of log-transformed parameters). Small differences in rosuvastatin pharmacokinetics were noted between age and gender groups. Glsmean AUC(0-t) was 6% higher (90% CI = 0.86-1.30) and glsmean Cmax, 12% higher (90% CI = 0.83-1.51) in the young compared with the elderly group. Glsmean AUC(0-t) was 9% lower (90% CI = 0.74-1.12) and glsmean Cmax 18% lower (90% CI = 0.61-1.11) in the male compared with the female group. These small differences are not considered clinically relevant, and dose adjustments based on age or gender are not anticipated. Rosuvastatin was well tolerated in all volunteers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12362931
Several case reports have suggested an interaction between digoxin and macrolide antibiotics. The authors investigated the effect of erythromycin and clarithromycin on the pharmacokinetics of intravenously administered digoxin (0.5 mg) in healthy subjects. Nine male subjects participated in three studies (digoxin alone, digoxin with erythromycin, and digoxin with clarithromycin). Subjects took erythromycin (800 mg per day) or clarithromycin (400 mg per day) on the day before digoxin dosing and during the kinetic study, Neither of the macrolides affected serum digoxin concentration-time curves. However, more than 1.3-fold increases in urinary digoxin excretions were observed during erythromycin and clarithromycin coadministration compared with digoxin alone. There were significant differences in renal clearance between macrolide coadministration and the control condition (digoxin alone: 98.4 ml/min; digoxin with erythromycin: 137.3 ml/min; digoxin with clarithromycin: 133.6 ml/min). In conclusion, neither erythromycin nor clarithromycin has a significant effect on serum digoxin disposition after an intravenous administration. Renal digoxin excretion is not inhibited but rather enhanced by both macrolides.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12364554
We investigated the effects of atorvastatin on the lipid and the apoA-I-containing HDL subpopulation profiles in 86 patients with established coronary heart disease (CHD). The entire drug treatment period lasted 12 weeks (4-week periods of 20 then 40, then 80 mg/day). Each dose of atorvastatin treatment resulted in significant reductions in plasma total-C, LDL-C, and triglyceride (TG), and non-significant increases in HDL-C levels compared with placebo treatment. ApoA-I levels did not change significantly during any of the treatment periods. Despite the modest increase of HDL-C (6%, 7%, 5%) and no change in apoA-I levels, the distribution of the apoA-I-containing HDL subpopulations changed significantly during each treatment period. There were significant increases in the concentrations of the large LpA-I alpha-1 (24%, 39%, 26%) and pre alpha-1 (51%, 61%, 63%) subpopulations at the expense of the small lipoprotein LpA-I:A-II alpha-3 subpopulations which decreased on all doses, and the decreases were significant on the 40 and 80 mg/day doses (6%, 5%). Atorvastatin influences the lipid-related risk for CHD in two ways: first, it significantly decreases LDL-C and TG levels while increasing HDL-C, and second, it significantly shifts the HDL subpopulation profile of CHD patients toward that observed in subjects without CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12365855
Renal disease is often associated with an increased risk of vascular events. Moreover, an accelerated form of atherosclerosis commonly occurs in these patients. The reasons for these associations are not clearly defined but include the widespread presence of several established risk factors (eg, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and diabetes). Other predictors of atherosclerotic disease may also be abnormally elevated (eg, homocysteine, fibrinogen, and lipoprotein a). In addition, there is evidence that impaired renal function per se predicts vascular risk. Despite this high-risk background, the potential benefit of treatment with statins has not been widely investigated in these patients. The present review considers the evidence (experimental and clinical) that statins exert beneficial effects in patients with different types of renal disease. This includes improved renal function, decreased microalbuminuria, and a fall in blood pressure. Statins may also improve renal allograft survival. The potential mechanisms mediating these effects are considered. The interactions between statins and several risk factors that may be present in patients with impaired renal function are also considered. There is an urgent need to define the role of statins in these high-risk patients. Which is the statin of choice? This question is relevant because impaired renal function can interfere with statin pharmacokinetics. Furthermore, other drugs administered to these patients may cause serious interactions with statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12366601
Inflammatory processes are now recognized to play a central role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and its complications. Plasma levels of several markers of inflammation have been found to be associated with future cardiovascular risk in a variety of clinical settings. These markers include cell adhesion molecules, cytokines, pro-atherogenic enzymes and C-reactive protein (CRP). Initially thought of as an inactive downstream marker of the inflammatory cascade, emerging evidence suggests that CRP may be directly involved in atherogenesis, and that arterial plaque can produce CRP, independent of traditional hepatic pathways. In addition to being a strong predictor of future cardiovascular risk amongst patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes, numerous studies have found that baseline levels of CRP are associated with risk of future myocardial infarction, stroke, peripheral vascular disease and cardiovascular death amongst apparently healthy populations. The combination of measurement of a marker of inflammation with lipid testing may improve upon risk stratification based on lipid testing alone, and intensification of programmes for exercise, weight loss, and smoking cessation is recommended for those with elevated CRP levels. Further trials are needed to confirm the potential benefits of statins amongst individuals with elevated CRP levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12368073
The beneficial effects of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) in cardiovascular disease have generally been attributed to their cholesterol-lowering property. However, an increasing number of in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that statins have direct anti-inflammatory effects that are not mediated by their hypocholesterolemic activity. In this article, the HMG-CoA-reductase-dependent and -independent mechanisms by which statins might affect leukocyte adhesion and migration to sites of inflammation are reviewed and the implications for the design of new statin-derived drugs are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12369881
Statins significantly reduce cardiovascular-related morbidity and mortality in patients with and without coronary artery disease. The potential of this drug class has yet to be fully explored. Accumulating evidence from basic research and clinical trials indicates that statins have pleiotropic effects that may largely account for the clinical benefits observed. Potential beneficial effects of these agents include enhancement of nitric oxide production in vasculature and the kidney. Statins have been shown to stabilize unstable plaques, improve vascular relaxation, and promote new vessel formation. Clinical trials and animal studies have shown that these agents reduce cardiovascular disease (CVD) risks and events, progression of nephropathy, development of diabetes, and fracture rates; these are benefits that go beyond lipid lowering alone. Potential beneficial effects are due to the positive impact on vascular and glomerular nitric oxide (NO) production and attenuation of vascular inflammation. Effects on bone, including fracture reduction, are thought to be mediated by direct action on bone formation. Moreover, potential reduction in the development of diabetes as observed in the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) may relate to the improvement in insulin sensitivity. These actions are mediated, in part, by the effects on small G-proteins, modulation of signaling cascades, transcription, and gene expression. In particular, the inhibition of small GTP-binding proteins, Rho, Ras, and Rac, whose proper membrane localization and function are dependent on isoprenylation, may play an important role in mediating the direct cellular effects of statins on the vascular wall. The clinical relevance of these effects is beginning to be recognized, and ongoing studies will be able to answer these many questions in the near future. Actions of statins on vascular, glomerular, bone, and insulin-sensitive tissue as well as effects of statins on cognitive function and oncoprotection will be discussed in this review.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12370211
Peripheral vascular disease is a manifestation of systemic atherosclerosis and is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12370451
Recent data suggest that statins may be potent immunomodulatory agents. In order to evaluate the potential role of statins as immunomodulators in MS, the authors studied their immunologic effects in vitro and compared them to interferon (IFN)beta-1b.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12371982
Patients on dialysis have a disproportionately high rate of cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, the incidence and risk factors for incident acute coronary syndromes (ACS) have not been previously assessed in dialysis patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12372576
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12372577
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12372582
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12374252
The use of statin agents in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACSs) remains an area of intense clinical interest. Statin therapy has an established secondary preventive benefit in patients with coronary artery disease, and its extension to ACS seems logical. A number of observational studies have shown an association between initiation of statin therapy early in ACS and improved clinical outcome. Additionally, 4 randomized controlled trials have examined the use of statin therapy for ACS: the Myocardial Ischemia Reduction with Aggressive Cholesterol Lowering (MIRACL) study, the Pravastatin Turkish Trial, the Fluvastatin on Risk Diminishing After Acute Myocardial Infarction (FLORIDA) study, and the Lipid-Coronary Artery Disease (L-CAD) study. Three of these trials showed a benefit with early initiation of statin therapy, whereas 1 trial demonstrated neither benefit nor harm. All the available trials lacked the power and design to sufficiently evaluate whether early initiation of statin therapy reduces mortality and reinfarction in patients with ACS. Four ongoing trials have been designed and sufficiently powered to determine whether statin therapy reduces the risk of death and reinfarction when initiated early in ACS treatment. A body of evidence suggests that the pleiotropic actions of statin agents might modulate benefit in ACS. This article summarizes the available data and provides a rationale for early initiation of statin therapy for patients with ACS.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12374669
Imatinib mesylate (Gleevec; Novartis, East Hanover, NJ)is a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved previously in 2001 by the United States Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast crisis, accelerated phase, or in chronic phase after failure of IFN-alpha therapy. We review herein the clinical profile of this drug and the regulatory review leading to the approval of a supplemental New Drug Application for the treatment of metastatic and/or unresectable malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). Experimental Design: We discuss the efficacy and side effects of imatinib mesylate in a Phase II trial of 147 patients with metastatic and/or unresectable malignant GISTs, the basis for marketing approval, and postmarketing commitments by the drug's manufacturer.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12375804
The predictive value of specific markers of infection and autoimmunity for coronary events, such as the effects of statins on inflammation, is still controversial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12379573
Whether marked LDL reduction to levels well below 100 mg/dL would further reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease is controversial. We compared the effects of 2 statins with widely differing potencies for LDL reduction (pravastatin 40 mg/d and atorvastatin 80 mg/d) on carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12381235
The mean age of patients at both first HIV detection and AIDS diagnosis is progressively rising over time. However, reliable epidemiological estimates, clinical data or controlled therapeutic and outcome figures are lacking for elderly patients, especially with regard to laboratory and clinical response to antiretroviral therapy, treatment tolerability, drug-drug interactions, short- and long-term toxicity, and interactions with underlying illnesses and concurrent pharmacological treatment. In fact, the large majority of randomised, controlled trials evaluating and comparing new antiretroviral drugs or anti-HIV therapeutic strategies, as well as antimicrobial treatment or chemoprophylaxis of HIV-related complications, either excluded patients with advanced age and/or concurrent disorders or did not offer substudies or detailed data analysis focusing on older patients compared with younger ones. The life expectancy of HIV-infected persons receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) is now extended (approaching that of the general population), so that the definition of AIDS has lost its epidemiological and clinical significance thanks to the immune reconstitution resulting from potent antiretroviral therapy. However, an ever-increasing number of individuals aged > or =50 years with HIV infection is expected in the coming years, as a result of both increased survival of patients with treated disease and delayed recognition of individuals with occult HIV disease. The limited data available about combined antiretroviral therapy in the elderly seem to show an overlapping virological success rate but a slower and blunted immune recovery compared with younger patients. Thymic output, however, seems somewhat preserved even in adulthood and may contribute to the reconstitution of most of the quantitative and functional T cell abnormalities caused by HIV disease. More attention must be paid to underlying end-organ disorders, as well as expected pharmacological interactions and combined drug toxicity that may interfere with HAART efficacy and patients' compliance with recommended regimens and could lead to increased adverse effects. The available guidelines for antiretroviral treatment and therapy and prophylaxis of AIDS-related illnesses should be regularly updated and should include problems related to HIV disease in an aging population. Specific trials or substudies focusing on older people are warranted to obtain controlled data on all issues of antiretroviral therapy in the elderly, including time and mode of initiation, and modification and salvage HAART regimens. Antiretroviral drug dosage adjustment to take into account underlying pathological conditions or other pharmacological treatments is another emerging issue.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12381246
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12381248
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12381252
To measure the cost-effectiveness of cholesterol-lowering therapy with pravastatin in patients with established ischaemic heart disease and average baseline cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12383389
To assess the influence of the form of presentation of the results of clinical trials on the quantitative perceptions of cardiologists regarding the efficacy of drugs for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease and their likelihood of prescribing them.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12383588
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12384626
Percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) have surpassed coronary artery bypass grafting as the most common means for treating coronary artery disease, because of materials improvement, the use of stent and pharmacotherapy. However, despite the variety of mechanical techniques such as dilatation, debulking or conventional stent implantation, the incidence of restenosis on short and mid-term follow-up is still representing an important limitation to PCI. Restenosis is mainly due to elastic recoil, negative vessel remodelling and neointimal proliferation, as a response to vessel injury induced by angioplasty devices. The use of conventional stents has provided an efficient method to avoid elastic recoil and negative vessel remodelling, thus partially reducing restenosis as compared to conventional balloon dilatation. However, neointimal proliferation (biological vessel response to injury caused by stent implantation) is not affected by stenting technique. Thus, the extensive use of coronary stent, even in complex lesions, have produced again a "new" disease: the in-stent restenosis especially in some patients' subset (diabetics) or in some lesion subset (bifurcations, long lesions, small vessels, total occlusions, diffuse disease). Therefore, the main target of today's interventional cardiologists is to resolve this problem. The combination between mechanical control of elastic recoil and negative remodelling (stent) and the control of neointimal proliferation - biological response to vessel injury - (antiproliferative drugs) is the emerging approach against restenosis. This emerging approach consists in using the stent as drug carrier to the target site. Local delivery of antiproliferative or immunosuppressive agents using a drug-coated stent is supposed to inhibit in stent restenosis. The first antiproliferative agents being used successfully in clinical trials are sirolimus and paclitaxel and, so far, the data available of these trials demonstrated a marked reduction of restenosis using sirolimus- and paclitaxel-coated stents as compared to conventional stents. However, many questions are still to be answered and several other clinical trials with drug-eluting stents are ongoing, evaluating safety and efficacy of sirolimus and paclitaxel in a larger number of patients and in different subset of coronary lesions type and morphology. Based on the very impressive results available at the present time, we can expect, in the very near future, remarkable changes in our clinical practice and the beginning of a new "era" of interventional cardiology.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12385592
Neurodegenerative diseases (NDD) are a group of illness with diverse clinical importance and etiologies. NDD include motor neuron disease such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), cerebellar disorders, Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), cortical destructive Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Schizophrenia. Numerous epidemiological and experimental studies provide many risk factors such as advanced age, genetic defects, abnormalities of antioxidant enzymes, excitotoxicity, cytoskeletal abnormalities, autoimmunity, mineral deficiencies, oxidative stress, metabolic toxicity, hypertension and other vascular disorders. Growing body of evidence implicates free radical toxicity, radical induced mutations and oxidative enzyme impairment and mitochondrial dysfunction due to congenital genetic defects in clinical manifestations of NDD. Accumulation of oxidative damage in neurons either primarily or secondarily may account for the increased incidence of NDD such as AD, ALS and stroke in aged populations. The molecular mechanisms of neuronal degeneration remain largely unknown and effective therapies are not currently available. Recent interest has focused on antioxidants such as carotenoids and in particular lycopene, a potent antioxidant in tomatoes and tomato products, flavonoids and vitamins as potentially useful agents in the management of human NDD. The pathobiology of neurodegenerative disorders with emphasis on genetic origin and its correlation with oxidative stress of neurodegenerative disorders will be reviewed and the reasons as to why brain constitutes a vulnerable site of oxidative damage will be discussed. The article will also discuss the potential free radical scavenger, mechanism of antioxidant action of lycopene and the need for the use of antioxidants in the prevention of NDD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12386502
Acute coronary syndromes represent the acute, life-threatening phases of coronary heart disease. Patients with acute coronary syndromes are at high risk of major adverse cardiac events. Treatment of these patients remains controversial because of the heterogeneous nature of these conditions and recent advances in their management options. The older standbys of aspirin, heparins, nitrates, beta-blockers, and thrombolytic therapy have given way to vastly improved interventional capabilities (with improved adjunctive pharmacotherapy), low molecular weight heparins, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists, safer theinopyridines, thrombin inhibitors, and newer generation fibrinolytics. Despite these substantial advances, a great deal of confusion remains. Clinicians know that there are better forms of therapy but are not sure how to use them, when to use them, or even what to use. They do not have all the answers at present and probably have more questions than answers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12387706
Fabry disease is an X-linked inherited disorder of metabolism due to mutations in the gene encoding alpha-galactosidase A, a lysosomal enzyme. The enzymatic defect leads to the systemic accumulation of incompletely metabolised glycosphingolipids, primarily globotriaosylceramide, in plasma and lysosomes within various tissues. Inability to prevent the progression of glycosphingolipid deposition causes significant morbidity, associated with significant impact on quality of life and diminished lifespan from early onset strokes, heart attack and progressive renal failure. The disease manifests primarily in hemizygous males; however, there is increasing recognition that heterozygous (carrier) females may also develop disease-related complications. Indeed, most heterozygotes present with cardiac, renal or neurological symptoms, although with later-onset and to a lesser extent than is observed in hemizygotes. Until recently, medical management was symptomatic, consisting of partial pain relief with analgesic drugs (carbamazepin, gabapentin), kidney and vascular protection with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, statins and folic acid, whereas renal transplantation or dialysis is available for patients experiencing end stage renal failure. The ability to produce high doses of alpha-galactosidase A has opened the way to preclinical studies, and enzyme replacement therapy has recently been validated as a therapeutic agent in clinical trials. Long-term safety and efficacy of replacement therapy are currently being investigated. Increasing knowledge of the natural history of Fabry disease and greater experience with enzyme therapy should enable optimal patient care. The complexity and relative rarity of Fabry disease necessitates a multi-disciplinary team approach that may be facilitated by a disease registry.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12389871
To present two case reports of patients who received suboptimal oral antiplatelet therapy and to review recent changes in national guidelines for management of acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12389877
Although several clinical trials clearly demonstrate a decrease in mortality and morbidity rates for various patient populations with cardiovascular disease, this disease continues to be the leading cause of death in the United States. Based on various practice surveys and descriptive reports, clinicians apparently are not identifying patients at risk or not treating them to established goals set by national guidelines. Most evidence, including the updated National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines, support low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) as the principal target for intervention. The guidelines also emphasize that a low level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) alone or in association with hypertriglyceridemia increases the risk of cardiovascular disease; also, epidemiologic data taken as a whole signify that a 1% decrease in HDL levels is associated with a 2-3% increase in risk of coronary heart disease. Low HDL levels occur more frequently than once thought, especially in selected populations such as patients with type 2 diabetes and men. Therapeutic lifestyle changes should be implemented first for any lipid disorder. In patients for whom this approach is not adequate, LDL levels need to be lowered to goals based on risk assessment. In addition, low HDL levels and/or hypertriglyceridemia should be managed with a niacin or fibrate product. However, increases in HDL levels and reductions in triglyceride levels are modest with fibrates compared with the dose-related changes seen with niacin products. Reformulation of niacin into an extended-release form minimizes common adverse effects seen with crystalline or sustained-release niacin, and the beneficial effects on the lipid profile are maintained.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12389882
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors are widely prescribed for their antiinflammatory and analgesic effects. The potential for COX-2 inhibitors to exert deleterious effects on renal function similar to those of traditional nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs is not well defined. Until recently, COX-1 was considered responsible for the synthesis of renal prostaglandins. However, COX-2 is also constitutively expressed in the human kidney Clinical studies have reported a significant decrease in glomerular filtration rate in young and elderly sodium-depleted volunteers given COX-2 inhibitors. We describe the case of a 71-year-old woman who developed acute renal failure after receiving a 50-mg dose of the selective COX-2 inhibitor rofecoxib.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12390056
Concerns about the effects of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ('statins') on health-related quality of life may contribute to their underuse in older adults with and at risk for cardiovascular disease. These concerns also may prevent clinicians from enrolling older patients in clinical trials assessing the efficacy of statins as a preventive therapy for Alzheimer's disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12390104
Most patients with vascular-occlusive diseases benefit from low-dose aspirin (75-325 mg/day). However, they have an increased risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12390557
Persons with HIV infection develop metabolic abnormalities related to their antiretroviral therapy and HIV infection itself. The objective of this study was to summarize the emerging evidence for the incidence, etiology, health risks, and treatment of dyslipidemias in HIV disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12390944
Stenting-related myocardial injury has been recognized as a frequent and prognostically important event, the extent of which depends on microcirculatory impairment in association with platelet aggregation, inflammation, and increased oxidative stress. Recent studies underscored the non-lipid-lowering effects of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) with antithrombotic, antiinflammatory, and antioxidative aspects. Thus, we tested the hypothesis that preprocedural statin therapy is associated with a reduction in the extent of stenting-related myocardial injury.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12390953
A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted to evaluate LDL cholesterol-lowering efficacy, overall safety, and tolerability and the influence on growth and pubertal development of simvastatin in a large cohort of boys and girls with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (heFH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12391360
Cerebral cholesterol metabolism has been linked with production of amyloid peptide (Abeta) crucial in AD. The association between use of cholesterol-lowering drugs (statins) and AD disease is currently being intensely discussed. In this case-control study on elderly nondemented subjects, the authors provide the first evidence that statins in clinically relevant dosages indeed affect cerebral cholesterol metabolism. However, these changes were not associated with altered intrathecal secretion of Alzheimer Abeta.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12391603
Ramon y Cajal proclaimed in 1928 that "once development was ended, the founts of growth and regeneration of the axons and dendrites dried up irrevocably. In the adult centers the nerve paths are something fixed, ended and immutable. Everything must die, nothing may be regenerated. It is for the science of the future to change, if possible, this harsh decree." (Ramon y Cajal, 1928). In large part, despite the extensive knowledge gained since then, the latter directive has not yet been achieved by 'modern' science. Although we know now that Ramon y Cajal's observation on CNS plasticity is largely true (for lower brain and primary cortical structures), there are mechanisms for recovery from CNS injury. These mechanisms, however, may contribute to the vulnerability to neurodegenerative disease. They may also be exploited therapeutically to help alleviate the suffering from neurodegenerative conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12392286
Cardiovascular disease is one of the major causes of morbidity and mortality following solid organ transplantation. Many of the current immunosuppressive drugs are associated with an increase of one or more risk factors for the development of atherosclerosis. This review compares the mechanism by which individual immunosuppressive agents may impact on these risk factors and the differential contribution of cyclosporine, tacrolimus, mycophenolate, azathioprine, and Rapamycin to these individual risk factors. Attention to the potential cardiovascular toxicities of individual immunosuppressive agents may help design strategies for maintenance of immunosuppression tailored to individual patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12392587
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have been demonstrated to have in vitro vascular effects. The aim of this study was to determine whether statins actually have in vivo vascular effects independent of their cholesterol-lowering effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12394319
Contrast arteriography is routinely used in the diagnosis and management of coronary atherosclerosis. However, it is recognized that conventional arteriography can not image plaque directly or provide prognostic information based on plaque characterization. Noninvasive, high-resolution magnetic resonance has the potential to image coronary plaque and to determine its composition and microanatomy. This review summarizes the rationale for coronary plaque imaging, and describes the characteristics of plaque using existing MRI techniques. Current and future applications of MRI, including the development of new contrast agents, targeted molecular imaging and the application of MRI to percutaneous coronary intervention are also discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12394329
The measures of secondary prevention in patients undergoing coronary bypass graft surgery (CABG) remains largely undetermined in Turkey.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12394605
There has been a necessary change in attitude to transplantation; there is much less concern with short-term outcome and more concern with long-term kidney function, overall health and quality of life. Nephrotoxicity is an invariable consequence of long-term treatment with calcineurin antagonists and it is one of the most underestimated causes of late graft loss; it has been reported as a serious threat to both patient and graft survival following heart, liver and bone marrow transplantation. Sirolimus has been shown in many recent studies to be of great value in allowing patients to be weaned from cyclosporine with excellent patient and graft survival at 24 months a significant improvement in renal function with resolution of hirsutism and gum hyperplasia. Patients maintained on the combined regime of cyclosporine and sirolimus had significantly higher blood pressure, much more cyclosporine nephrotoxicity and hyperuricaemia at 12 months. The experimental studies have found cyclosporine and sirolimus potentiate with each other's good and adverse effects. Cyclosporine therefore augments hyperlipidaemia caused by sirolimus, and sirolimus augments nephrotoxicity caused by cyclosporine. The results of these studies indicate that sirolimus is a suitable replacement for cyclosporine or tacrolimus for long-term maintenance therapy. By contrast the use of sirolimus in combination with cyclosporine results in potentiation of side effects. The principal disadvantages being increased cyclosporine associated nephrotoxicity and sirolimus associated hyperlipidaemia

Abstract for pubmed ID 12394655
Hypercholesterolemia has been identified as a major risk factor for the development of coronary artery disease. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of a Mediterranean diet on the development of non-fatal acute coronary syndromes (ACS) in hypercholesterolemic people, with or without statin treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12395203
The need for repeat interventions after initially successful PTCA due to restenosis has been called the "Archilles heel" of a percutaneous revascularization procedure. The incidence of restenosis varies between 20-50 % depending on the stent material, the presence of risk factors, and the location of vascular disease. Some risk factors such as diabetes have been clearly identified, others are currently debated. After years of failures trying to reduces restenosis rates, locally administered antiproliferative means have been shown to successfully inhibit excessive cell growth in response to PTCA. Local radiotherapy of in-stent restenosis results in a reduction of recurrent stenosis versus a conventional PTCA procedure. However, long-term evaluation indicated that restenosis may only be delayed with radiation therapy. Moreover, the restenosis rates were reduced, but the restenotic process was not eliminated. Coronary stents eluting the anti-proliferative agent rapamycin have demonstrated for the first time, that restenosis rates of zero percent are achievable after percutaneous revascularization procedures. Thus, it is intriguing to believe that the elimination of restenosis may have become reality. The purpose of this review is to discuss, whether a stent eluting drugs should be considered as the "magic bullet" for prevention of restenosis after PTCA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12396226
The benefits of lipid lowering therapy on coronary heart disease have been clearly established in many clinical trials on primary and secondary prevention. Despite the availability of potent lipid lowering drugs, many patients do not reach the current treatment goals. This paper reviews new therapeutic approaches in lipid lowering drugs focusing on compounds which lower cholesterol absorption. The role of plant sterols and stanols, new acyl-CoA:cholesterol O-acyl transferase (ACAT) inhibitors, microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) inhibitors, and ezetimibe are summarised. Although the lipid lowering effect of plant sterols and plant stanols is only moderate, their use as functional foods is beneficial for patients with mild hypercholesterolaemia and is able to enhance the lipid lowering effect of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins). The role of ACAT inhibitors that might also inhibit cholesterol absorption remains unclear. Avasimibe, the first oral bioavailable ACAT inhibitor, has entered phase III trials. However, the presently available data in humans do not indicate a clear clinical benefit. The role of MTP inhibitors, which exhibit remarkable effects on all plasma lipids, also remains unclear, as safety concerns must first be addressed. Ezetimibe, the first available 2-azetidinone, succeeded in phase III trials showing remarkable effects in inhibition of cholesterol absorption as well as cholesterol lowering. The synergistic effect of co-administration of ezetimibe with statins seemingly offers a new approach in reaching the therapeutic goals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12398573
To review the clinical benefit of statins in the early management of acute coronary syndromes (ACSs) and their possible mechanisms of benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12398818
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12398959
This study examined the effects of simvastatin on C-reactive protein (CRP) and other inflammatory markers in study subjects with significant elevations in triglyceride (TG) blood levels. CRP, vascular cellular adhesion molecule (VCAM), serum amyloid A (SAA), and interleukin 6 (IL-6) were measured in archived plasma samples from 2 multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies designed to examine the lipid-altering efficacy of simvastatin in study subjects with elevated TGs. In the first study, 130 study subjects with mixed hyperlipidemia (low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol > or =130 mg/dl; TGs 300 to 700 mg/dl) received placebo or simvastatin 40 or 80 mg once daily for three 6-week periods in a complete-block crossover design. In the second study, 195 study subjects with hypertriglyceridemia (TGs 300 to 900 mg/dl) received daily doses of placebo or simvastatin 20, 40, or 80 mg for 6 weeks. Significant but weak correlations were observed between baseline CRP values and baseline levels of LDL cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, but not with TGs. CRP was also correlated with body mass index and fasting levels of glucose and insulin. Treatment with simvastatin 20, 40, and 80 mg led to significant reductions in CRP plasma levels versus placebo (p <0.05). Although CRP change was weakly correlated with changes in LDL cholesterol, TGs, and HDL cholesterol, results of regression analyses showed that only baseline CRP and treatment allocation were significant predictors of CRP response after 6 weeks of study drug administration. Simvastatin had no effect on VCAM, SAA, or IL-6. In summary, simvastatin significantly reduced CRP in patients with mixed hyperlipidemia and hypertriglyceridemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12398960
This study evaluated the effects of rosiglitazone therapy on lipids and the efficacy and safety of rosiglitazone in combination with atorvastatin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Three-hundred thirty-two patients entered an 8-week, open-label, run-in treatment phase with rosiglitazone 8 mg/day, and 243 were randomized to a 16-week, double-blinded period of continued rosiglitazone plus placebo, atorvastatin 10 mg/day, or atorvastatin 20 mg/day. With rosiglitazone alone, a modest increase in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (9%), a shift in LDL phenotype from dense to large buoyant subfractions (52% of patients), and an increase in total high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels (6%), predominantly in HDL(2) levels (13%), occurred from week 0 to week 8. When atorvastatin was added, there was a further increase in HDL(3) (5%) and expected significant reductions (p <0.0001) in LDL cholesterol (-39%), apolipoprotein B (-35%), and triglyceride levels (-27%). Glycemic control achieved with rosiglitazone alone was not adversely affected by add-on atorvastatin. The combination was well tolerated compared with placebo. To conclude, in addition to the beneficial effects of rosiglitazone on glycemic control, rosiglitazone and atorvastatin in combination achieved 2 goals: the reduction of LDL cholesterol to <100 mg/dl and the removal of small dense LDL in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12398969
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12399758
Bexarotene (Targretin oral capsules), the first RXR-selective retinoid "rexinoid" approved for all stages of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), had a response rate (RR) of 45% at the optimal dose of 300 mg/m(2) per day in 2 multicenter trials. With hypertriglyceridemia reported at 79%, bexarotene is often administered with lipid-lowering agents (LLAs). Statins (inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase) may modulate class II major histocompatibility class expression and T-cell responses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12400150
Treatment of hypertension in African Americans has special challenges, including a lack of objective trial data on which to base decisions and differing benefits and responses than with other patients. However, adequate control is possible and should be the goal of treating physicians. This article describes current "best practice" guidance on appropriate treatment of high blood pressure in African Americans. Two patient scenarios offer insight into clinical strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12401142
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12401406
Recent studies have highlighted the role of inflammatory mediators and the cells of the innate and adaptive immune response in the initiation, growth and rupture of atherosclerotic plaques. Viewing this form of vascular pathology as a modified form of chronic inflammation suggests new avenues for therapeutic intervention in cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12402412
Cardiovascular diseases secondary to accelerated atherosclerosis are now accepted as a cause of mortality and morbidity in patients suffering from systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. More recently, atherosclerosis is emerging as one of the most serious complications in the anti-phospholipid syndrome, although large epidemiological studies, such as those performed in lupus and rheumatoid arthritis patients, have not been performed up to now. Classical risk factors (dislipidemia, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, etc.) and steroid therapy cannot completely explain the high prevalence of cardiovascular complications in systemic autoimmune diseases. Since the modern view defines atherosclerosis as a chronic inflammatory disorder, it has been suggested that systemic inflammation and soluble immune mediators (circulating autoantibodies, immune-complexes, complement activation products) might play a role in accelerating vessel pathology. The main target appears to be the endothelium because of its ability to switch to a pro-adhesive, pro-inflammatory and pro-coagulant surface in response to these mediators. Recent advances in the knowledge of the pharmacology of statins have indicated that these drugs rather than to be simple cholesterol lowering molecules display a pleiotropic effects on several mechanisms involved in the atherosclerotic plaque formation. Their anti-inflammatory activity and particularly their ability to downregulate endothelial cell activation induced by different stimuli strongly suggest their possible use in conditions in which the systemic inflammation and the endothelial activation/damage are thought to represent key pathogenic mechanisms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12402992
There is growing interest in the role of matrix metalloproteinases in vascular diseases. These conditions are often characterized by excessive tissue remodelling, and increased matrix metalloproteinase activity has been demonstrated in aneurysms, intimal hyperplasia and atherosclerotic plaque disruption. These enzymes represent a potential target for therapeutic intervention to modify vascular pathology. The core of this review is derived from a MEDLINE database literature search. The review found that there is convincing evidence of increased matrix metalloproteinase activity in a spectrum of vascular disease. Evidence for an imbalance promoting increased matrix degradation is less well documented. However, studies of matrix metalloproteinase inhibition in vascular disease models suggest potential therapeutic benefit. In conclusion, in vivo studies of matrix metalloproteinase inhibition are required to further study the potential for reversal or deceleration of the excessive tissue remodelling that accompanies vascular disorders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12403985
Alzheimer's disease is the single biggest unmet medical need in neurology. Current drugs are safe, but of limited benefit to most patients. This review discusses the scientific basis and current status of promising disease-modifying therapies in the discovery and development stages. I describe the major targets of anti-amyloid therapy and the main focus of disease modification approaches. In addition, two new potential treatment approaches supported by retrospective epidemiology are outlined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12405570
Coronary stenoses of intermediate severity create difficulties in decision making when revascularization is concerned. Myocardial fractional flow reserve (mFFR), an accurate tool to identify physiological significance of individual coronary stenoses, may help solve this problem.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12405574
This study tested the impact of intensive metabolic treatment with insulin on transient myocardial ischaemia detected with continuous 12-lead ST-segment monitoring during non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndromes in type 2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12406030
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12407821
The aim of the present comparative, non-randomized intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) study was to test the effect of pravastatin on late neointima formation in stented de novo lesions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12409741
Hypertriglyceridaemia is common in patients with HIV, especially those taking protease inhibitors or with lipodystrophy, frequently observed at levels associated with accelerated cardiac disease. This study aimed to explore the efficacy and safety of gemfibrozil for hypertriglyceridemia in patients with HIV infection.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12410084
Each of the lipid-lowering agents available today can cause myopathy. The severity of the muscle disorder may vary from trivial myalgias or elevations of creatine kinase in asymptomatic individuals to rhabdomyolysis with myoglobinuria, renal failure, and death. Fortunately, significant myopathy occurs at a low rate. However, the large number of individuals taking these medications renders it a significant problem. Although the pathophysiology of the myopathy remains speculative, its occurrence appears to be dose related. Consequently, the total dosage of lipid-lowering drug consumed, the concomitant use of other medications that affect their blood levels, and the individual's specific drug-metabolizing enzyme profile may contribute to this toxicity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12410168
Dyslipidemia including hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia often associated with low levels of HDL-cholesterol is a common and important cluster of risk factors for coronary heart disease. Dyslipidemia is also commonly associated with hypertension, hyperinsulinemia and central obesity in the metabolic syndrome. Lifestyle adjustments including increased physical activity and dietary modifications leading to weight reduction are important first steps in the prevention of coronary heart disease in patients with such abnormalities in lipid metabolism. When these adjustments are insufficient to achieve desirable results, the combined treatment with statins and omega-3 fatty acids is an efficient treatment alternative. Both statins and omega-3 fatty acids have documented their effects against coronary heart disease (CHD) both in primary and secondary prevention trials. The mechanisms involved are only partly explained, however, the synergistic effects of statins and omega-3 fatty acids significantly reduce the risk for CHD in patients with dyslipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12410906
To compare the use of lipid-lowering drugs in community-dwelling older adults with and without dementia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12411646
Recent findings suggest a causative role of infections in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. The extent of atherosclerosis and the prognosis of patients with atherosclerosis seem to be increased by the number of infections to which an individual has been exposed. In a prospective study, we evaluated the effect of 8 pathogens and the aggregate pathogen burden on the progression of carotid atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12411985
The number of people in the United States with heart failure (HF) is expected to rise dramatically as the population ages unless efforts to prevent HF improve.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12412817
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is the major inhibitor of endogenous thrombolysis, thereby promoting thrombosis. PAI-1 is also a primary contributor to the development and recurrence of acute myocardial infarction. The renin angiotensin system, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia, and estrogen all influence the fibrinolytic system and PAI-1 in particular. Available data strongly suggest that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and hormone replacement therapy with estrogen beneficially reduce PAI-1 production. Metformin, an agent commonly used for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), appears to favorably decrease PAI-1 production in NIDDM patients but not nondiabetic patients. Among the cholesterol-lowering statins, clinical literature evaluating pravastatin provides the most compelling data to support this agent's favorable effect on PAI-1. Other available statins either have not displayed an effect on PAI-1 or do not have clear data to conclusively define their effects on the fibrinolytic system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12414463
Although acute coronary syndromes (ACS) represent a well-recognized source of morbidity and mortality for patients with cardiovascular disease, evidence-based therapies shown to improve outcomes for ACS are frequently underused in appropriate patients, especially in the emergency department (ED). Despite dissemination of expert recommendations from the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) and ED-focused recapitulation of them in the emergency medicine literature, significant barriers continue to limit the adoption of guidelines in clinical practice and appear to hinder the use of beneficial therapies and interventions in the ED. Unique and creative approaches are therefore needed to stimulate better adherence to practice guidelines and improve the quality of care for patients with non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTE) ACS. The CRUSADE (Can Rapid Risk Stratification of Unstable Angina Patients Suppress ADverse Outcomes with Early Implementation of the ACC/AHA Guidelines) quality improvement and educational initiative provides an innovative and multifaceted approach to the education of emergency physicians and cardiologists in the care of patients with NSTE ACS. The CRUSADE initiative is a multidisciplinary cooperative effort involving over 400 EDs and medical centers. It includes an ACS registry designed to characterize demographic patterns and risk stratification results in patients who meet diagnostic criteria for high-risk NSTE ACS. It also measures the use of ED treatment modalities including aspirin, heparin, beta-blockers, and platelet inhibitors as recommended in the ACC/AHA guidelines. The results of a given institution's treatment patterns will be reported back to the practitioners, with comparisons with national norms. These reports can be used as quality improvement tools to improve care at participating institutions. Beyond a static registry, these reports are coupled with educational efforts by the CRUSADE steering committee, scientific publications of risk stratification practice and success, as well as ED patterns of care, and tailored educational interventions, to reinforce compliance with the ACC/AHA guidelines. This initiative represents a truly innovative approach to improving care for ACS patients in the ED as well as on the cardiology service. This article describes the CRUSADE initiative and its implications for the practicing emergency physician. It is the intent of CRUSADE to improve patient care in the ED by tracking and encouraging compliance with evidence-based guidelines for the evaluation and management of NSTE ACS.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12414837
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is a major global health problem. Recently, combination therapy including HIV-1 protease inhibitors (PIs) has dramatically improved the long-term survival of HIV-infected patients. However, such therapy is associated with a lipodystrophy syndrome characterized by selective loss of sc fat from the face and extremities and, in some patients, accumulation of fat around the neck, dorsocervical region, abdomen, and trunk. Lipodystrophy in HIV-infected patients (LDHIV) is associated with insulin resistance and its metabolic complications such as impaired glucose tolerance, diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia and low serum high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. PIs appear to be the strongest link to LDHIV; however, fat loss has been reported in some patients taking non-PI antiretroviral drugs. Other factors, such as duration of HIV infection, age, and gender, may also contribute to the risk of development of LDHIV. The molecular basis of LDHIV remains unknown. There is no specific therapy for LDHIV. Avoiding weight gain by reducing energy intake and increasing physical activity may be beneficial in reducing fat accumulation as well as improving metabolic complications. Antihyperglycemic drugs may be used to treat diabetes. Management of dyslipidemia may require lipid-lowering drugs; however, the safety and efficacy of such intervention require further studies. Substitution of PIs with other antiretroviral drugs can mitigate dyslipidemia and glucose intolerance, but whether reversal of lipodystrophy occurs remains unknown. Future research is needed to discover the biochemical and molecular markers of lipodystrophy in HIV patients and develop PIs or other antiretroviral agents that are free of metabolic toxicity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12416740
Platelet activation, impairment of fibrinolysis, activation of the coagulation pathway, and dyslipidemia are important factors in the pathogenesis and progression of ischemic heart disease, and patients generally need to use an antiplatelet agent. Lipid-lowering cerivastatin, a novel 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, was administered to 20 patients with primary mixed hyperlipidemia for the assessment of the effect of cerivastatin on lipid levels, plasma fibrinogen concentration, factor VII, VIII, and X levels, plasminogen and antiplasmin concentrations, platelet count, and aggregation (adenosine diphosphate [ADP], collagen, and epinephrine induced). Assessments were made immediately after 2 months of a standard lipid-lowering diet, 4 weeks of placebo administration, and 4 weeks of cerivastatin treatment. Cerivastatin achieved significant reductions in triglyceride, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. The significant improvement of the lipid profile was associated with platelet aggregation reduction in vitro stimulated by ADP, collagen, and epinephrine (P < .05, P = .05, P < .005, respectively). Significantly lower levels of factor VII and fibrinogen were observed (P = .001, P < .0001) immediately after cerivastatin treatment. No significant differences were detected in factor VIII level, plasminogen and antiplasmin concentrations, and platelet count after cerivastatin treatment. It was concluded that cerivastatin in mixed hyperlipidemia can exert beneficial changes on specific hemostatic variables and platelet aggregation in addition to its positive effects on plasma lipid values.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417288
High sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) has emerged as the best studied and most promising marker of inflammation in atherosclerotic vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417534
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417823
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417825
A prospective study was performed in 177 patients, mean age 78+/-6 years, hospitalized with acute coronary syndromes. Obstructive coronary artery disease was documented by coronary angiography in 154 of 177 patients (87%). Coronary revascularization was performed in 96 of 177 patients (54%). Five of 177 patients (3%) died during hospitalization. Compared to use before hospitalization, at hospital discharge the use of aspirin increased from 43% to 84% (p<0.001), the use of clopidogrel increased from 21% to 54% (p<0.001), the use of beta blockers increased from 38% to 76% (p<0.001), the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers increased from 42% to 70% (p<0.001), the use of long-acting nitrates increased from 15% to 31% (p<0.001), and the use of calcium channel blockers decreased from 28% to 23% (p=NS). Dyslipidemia was present in 62% of the 177 patients. The use of statins increased from 34% before hospitalization to 63% at hospital discharge (p<0.001).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417826
Ventricular arrhythmias are the most common cause of sudden cardiac death in patients with coronary artery disease. Since treatment of hypercholesterolemia in patients with coronary artery disease reduces the risk of major coronary events by about 30%, one could speculate that this treatment could also result in a reduction of arrhythmic episodes in high-risk patients. In this review, the importance of myocardial ischemia as a trigger for ventricular arrhythmias, as well as the available data that suggest a possible effect of anti-ischemic treatments, including lipid-lowering drugs, on these arrhythmias are presented. Also, possible mechanisms and future research to test the hypothesis that lipid-lowering drugs can reduce life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12417829
Landmark intervention trials have validated the importance of lipid control in reducing the incidence of coronary ischemic events, over a range of baseline lipid levels. With the release of the third iteration of the National Cholesterol Education Programs Adult Treatment Panel guidelines, there is renewed debate about the appropriate use of pharmacologic therapies in individual patients, especially in primary prevention. Markers of low-grade inflammation may capture the inflammatory aspect of atherosclerosis and may prove to be useful clinical predictors of excess coronary risk. C-reactive protein, an acute-phase reactant protein, appears to be one such promising measurement and may have important implications for the optimal targeting of statin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12418578
This article reviews experimental and clinical data on atherosclerosis and cancer showing common pathogenic mechanisms. It is suggested that common pathways follow dysfunction of the vascular endothelium. The activation of the haemostatic system and the overexpression of cytokines and adhesion molecules by the endothelial cells represent important features of this dysfunction. These mechanisms can be responsible for progression of both diseases and explain the higher incidence of thromboembolic events in cancer patients, the occurrence of similar laboratory findings and the effect of many drugs on the course of the two diseases. Our article confirms that atherosclerosis and cancer share common mechanisms, and we hope it will stimulate further clinical trials on the use of drugs active on the haemostatic system in cancer patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12419552
A number of vascular diseases are associated with abnormal expression of genes that contribute to their pathophysiological and clinical manifestations, but at the same time offer potential therapeutic targets. One of the promising therapeutic approaches targets the pathophysiological pathways leading to aberrant gene activation, namely transcriptional activity and its molecular modulators (agonists, antagonists, coregulators, and nuclear receptors). The transcription factors can be divided into four classes (I-IV) classified by structural elements, like basic leucine zipper (bZIP) or basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH), which mediate their DNA binding activity but also determine the classes of drugs that can affect their activity. For example, statins modulate activation of the class-I transcription factor sterol responsive element-binding protein (SREBP), whose target genes including hydroxyl-methyl-glutaryl acetyl Coenzyme-A (HMG-CoA) reductase, HMG-CoA synthase, and the low-density lipoprotein receptor, all of which are involved in cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism. Similarly, insulin-like drugs target the nuclear receptor peroxisome-proliferator-activator-receptor (PPAR)-gamma (class-II), several anti-inflammatory drugs inhibit activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) (class-IV), while others (e.g. flavopiridol, rapamycin, and paclitaxel) target regulation of cell-cycle proteins. Increased understanding of the genetic and molecular basis of disease (e.g. transcriptional activity and its coregulation) will potentially enhance future diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of vascular diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12419937
Low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) are currently considered to be a major risk factor for the development of coronary artery disease (CAD). Deficiencies in the HDL metabolic pathway promote atherosclerosis and contribute to CAD. Low HDL-C levels are included in the Framingham 10-year risk assessment for CAD although they are not yet targeted for therapy. Recent clinical trials have shown benefits from raising HDL-C, particularly in patients with lower baseline levels. The statin class of drugs, used primarily to lower the level of low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, may be able to raise the HDL-C level as well. Statins could potentially affect HDL-C by different modes of action, most importantly by altering reverse cholesterol transport. Among the currently available statins, simvastatin has demonstrated the most consistent ability to raise HDL-C level, but further large-scale studies at an early stage will be needed to prove the antiatherogenic effects of this class of drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12420192
The objective of the study was to examine medically managed secondary prevention at one year after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). In all, 214 consecutive patients undergoing isolated elective CABG seen four weeks preoperatively and one year post-operatively. Preoperative systolic blood pressure averaged 135+/-20 mmHg, which increased to 148+/-25 mmHg (P<0.0001) as did diastolic pressure (81+/-12 to 87+/-13 mmHg; P<0.0001). Anginal symptoms were reported by 45.1% (P<0.0001) although median severity scored lower (4.0 [3.0-5.4] vs 0 [0-2.0]; P<0.0001). Breathlessness decreased from 93% to 64% (P<0.0001) and was scored less severely (4.0 [2.0-5.0] vs 2.0 [0-4.0]; P<0.0001. In all, 88% with postoperative angina reported dyspnoea against 44% of those without (P<0.0001). Calcium antagonist use was more common in patients with angina (27.2% vs 5.1%; P<0.0001), but not nitrates (P=0.8695), diuretics (P=0.4218), digoxin (P=0.2565), beta-blockers (P=0.0820), or ACE inhibitors (P=0.7256). Preoperatively 166 patients (80.2%) took aspirin vs 69.2% afterwards (P=0.0131). Twelve patients (6.5%) received warfarin after operation vs none preoperatively. Two took digoxin (0.97%) preoperatively and 14 (7.7%) postoperatively (P=0.001) for chronic atrial fibrillation. One of these took warfarin. Long-acting nitrate use fell from 63.4% to 15.8% (P <0.0001). Short-acting nitrate use fell similarly (P<0.0001). Preoperatively 37 patients (17.9%) took ACE inhibitors vs 44 postoperatively (24.2%); 39 had not received them before. Preoperatively 48 (23.2%) took diuretics vs 30 (16.5%) postoperatively (P=0.127); 24 had not previously taken diuretics. More patients took HMGCoA inhibitors postoperatively (P=0.0068) and total cholesterol was significantly reduced with a concomitant increase in HDL fraction. Smoking habit was virtually unchanged from 17.8% to 15.1% (P=0.5023). In conclusion: angina was common. Apart from statin prescribing, postoperative secondary prevention measures were poorly applied, less widespread and less effective than preoperatively. The implications are disturbing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12420194
As statins may contribute to plaque stabilisation, it is important to evaluate whether these drugs may modify arterial stiffness. In 23 patients, aged 32-70 years, with hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia, a double-blind randomised study vs placebo was performed to evaluate whether atorvastatin was able to modify aortic stiffness, measured from aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV), after a 12-week treatment. The results revealed that atorvastatin did not change blood pressure, significantly lowered (P<0.003; <0.002) plasma total and LDL cholesterol, and increased aortic PWV by +8% (vs -2% under placebo) (P<or=0.05). The percentage changes in plasma total and LDL cholesterol and in PWV were significantly and negatively correlated, independent of blood pressure level. The finding of increased aortic PWV after 12-week statin treatment agrees with studies in monkeys, indicating that, at the early phase of hypolipidaemic diet but not later, aortic PWV increases transiently as a consequence of the significant reduction of lipid vascular content. In conclusion, the present results support the possibility that statins might contribute to a change in arterial stiffness independent of blood pressure level, and suggest that long-term studies in humans are needed to evaluate the contribution of arterial elasticity to statin-induced vascular remodelling.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12421100
During the reproductive period, women generally have lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and higher high-density lipoprotein cholesterol than age- and diet-matched men. However, these possibly antiatherogenic characteristics of lipoproteins are changed to a potentially atherogenic profile after menopause. Menopause-related changes in lipoprotein profile can be corrected by the administration of hormone replacement therapy (HRT). However, the results of recent studies did not show definite benefits of HRT on coronary heart disease-related mortality rates. On the other hand, several large-scale, long-term clinical trials provide evidence for efficacy and safety of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) in both men and women. The results of 19 short-term clinical trials using simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin or lovastatin in postmenopausal women are summarised and discussed. All these investigations reported significant reductions in both total and LDL cholesterol levels. The question of whether statin therapy results in a significant decrease in cardiovascular-related mortality rates along with a better quality of life in postmenopausal women remains to be investigated in large-scale, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12421115
The pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease is complex and involves several different biochemical pathways. These include defective beta-amyloid (Abeta) protein metabolism, abnormalities of glutamatergic, adrenergic, serotonergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission, and the potential involvement of inflammatory, oxidative and hormonal pathways. Consequently, these pathways are all potential targets for Alzheimer's disease treatment and prevention strategies. Currently, the mainstay treatments for Alzheimer's disease are the cholinesterase inhibitors, which increase the availability of acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses. Since the cholinesterase inhibitors confer only modest benefits, additional non-cholinergic Alzheimer's disease therapies are urgently needed. Several non-cholinergic agents are currently under development for the treatment and/or prevention of Alzheimer's disease. These include anti-amyloid strategies (e.g. immunisation, aggregation inhibitors, secretase inhibitors), transition metal chelators (e.g. clioquinol), growth factors, hormones (e.g. estradiol), herbs (e.g. Ginkgo biloba), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, e.g. indomethacin), antioxidants, lipid-lowering agents, antihypertensives, selective phosphodiesterase inhibitors, vitamins (E, B12, B6, folic acid) and agents that target neurotransmitter or neuropeptide alterations. Neurotransmitter receptor-based approaches include agents that modulate certain receptors (e.g. nicotinic, muscarinic, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid [AMPA], gamma-aminobutyric acid [GABA], N-methyl-D-aspartate [NMDA]) and agents that increase the availability of neurotransmitters (e.g. noradrenergic reuptake inhibitors). Of these strategies, the NMDA receptor antagonist memantine is in the most advanced stage of development in the US and is already approved in Europe as the first treatment for moderately severe to severe Alzheimer's disease. Memantine is proposed to counteract cellular damage due to pathological activation of NMDA receptors by glutamate. Results with Ginkgo biloba have been mixed. Data for neurotrophic therapies and vitamin E (tocopherol) appear promising but require confirmation. NSAIDs and conjugated estrogens have not proven to be of value to date for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Statins may have a potential role in reducing the risk or delaying the onset of Alzheimer's disease, although this has yet to be confirmed in randomised trials. There are currently no data to support the use of statins as a treatment for dementia. This article provides an update on the current status of selected agents, focusing primarily on those agents with the most extensive clinical evidence at present.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12422142
A number of studies have used B-mode ultrasound to measure carotid intimal-medial thickness as an indicator of the severity of carotid atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12423708
Ezetimibe is a lipid-lowering drug that inhibits the intestinal absorption of dietary and biliary cholesterol by blocking passage across the intestinal wall. The efficacy and safety of adding ezetimibe to ongoing statin therapy in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The study group included 769 adults (aged > or =18 years) with primary hypercholesterolemia who had not achieved National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel II goals with dietary alteration and statin monotherapy. Patients receiving a stable dose of a statin for > or =6 weeks were randomized to receive concurrent treatment with placebo (n = 390) or ezetimibe (n = 379), 10 mg/day, in addition to continuing their open-label statin for 8 weeks. The primary efficacy variable was the percent change in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol from baseline with statin monotherapy to end point after intervention (secondary variables: high-density lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol and triglycerides). Ongoing statin therapy plus ezetimibe led to changes of -25.1% for LDL cholesterol (HDL cholesterol +2.7%; triglycerides -14.0%) compared with LDL cholesterol -3.7% (p <0.001), HDL cholesterol +1.0% (p <0.05), and triglycerides -2.9% (p <0.001) for placebo added to ongoing statin therapy. Among patients not at LDL cholesterol goal at on-statin baseline, 71.5% receiving statin plus ezetimibe versus 18.9% receiving statin plus placebo reached goal at end point (odds ratio 23.7; p <0.001). The co-administration of statin and ezetimibe was generally well tolerated. Adding ezetimibe to ongoing statin therapy led to substantial additional reduction in LDL cholesterol levels, facilitating attainment of NCEP goals. Ezetimibe offers a new therapeutic option for patients receiving statins who require further reduction in LDL cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12423718
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12424866
Although increasing disability is a common concomitant of old age, several interventions may prevent or delay disabling diseases. The "young-old" differ little from middle-aged people in their potential to benefit from many interventions. As age increases, clinicians need to become increasingly circumspect about interventions with a potential for harm and for benefit. By carefully weighing existing disease burden, the state of our knowledge about prevention, and patient values, however, clinicians may develop a reasonable preventive program in consultation with the patient and, where there is diminished competence, relevant family members. As we gain new knowledge about genetic and other risk factors, we may be able to more accurately and effectively target preventive services to maximize benefits and minimize harms in the population as a whole.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12424868
Cardiovascular disease leads to significant morbidity and mortality in the older population. Results of risk reduction can be dramatic in terms of patient survival and quality of life. This article reviews evidence for cardiovascular risk factors and disease prevention in older adults. Interventions which reduce morbidity and mortality from coronary artery disease, heart failure, and cerebrovascular disease in the elderly population are examined. Attention is given to the role of cardiovascular disease in older women and in minorities, subsets not well-represented in many studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12424869
The brain is subjected to multiple factors that result in damage to its cellular constituents, the neuron and supporting cells, and the neural networks that form the bases of cognitive ability. Like other systems, the brain has remarkable capacity to repair that damage and to adapt or compensate for the loss of neurons and the disruption of the neural architecture. Brain aging and dementia can be conceptualized as a balance between neuronal injury and repair. This balance can be affected not only by genetic and age-related factors but also by multiple environmental factors. The latter includes many factors, including education, nutrition, exercise, socialization, and stress. As individuals, we have the potential to modify these factors through lifestyle choices. Advances in neuroscience have led to the development of pharmacologic agents that can ameliorate the effects of even genetic (e.g., statins and antihypertensive agents) and age-related (e.g., antioxidants and estrogen replacement) factors. By altering the balance between neuronal injury and repair, we can delay the expression and progression of the neurodegenerative processes of brain aging, AD, and related dementias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12425182
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a manifestation of systemic atherosclerosis strongly associated with cardiovascular (CV) morbidity and mortality. Approximately 12% of the US adult population is affected. Despite its prevalence, the disease has received little attention from clinicians. The primary causes of death in patients with PAD are myocardial infarction and stroke; thus, current treatment strategies for symptomatic PAD include aggressive modification of risk factors for CV disease such as cessation of smoking, treatment of hypertension and diabetes, and normalization of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. All patients with PAD should be receiving antiplatelet therapy to prevent ischemic events. Medical treatment for patients with claudication includes exercise rehabilitation and drug therapy. Although many therapies for claudication have been thoroughly investigated, research continues on new treatments. In contrast, more prospective, randomized trials are needed to evaluate various therapies for treating patients with PAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12425372
Ezetimibe is the first member of a new class of selective cholesterol absorption inhibitors, compounds that effectively block intestinal absorption of dietary and biliary cholesterol, without affecting absorption of fat soluble vitamins or triglycerides. Ezetimibe underwent glucuronidation to a single metabolite and localised at the intestinal wall, where it prevented luminal cholesterol absorption. Pre-clinical studies demonstrated the lipid-lowering and antiatherosclerotic properties of ezetimibe. The efficacy and safety of ezetimibe monotherapy have been determined in phase II/III studies: in phase II studies, the optimal efficacy was reached with ezetimibe 10 mg per day and the pooled efficacy data have shown that ezetimibe 10 mg has a positive effect on the lipoprotein profile with a significant reduction in LDL-cholesterol of 18.5%, an increase in HDL-cholesterol of 3.5% and a trend towards lowering in triglyceride concentrations (-4.9%). The monotherapy phase III studies have confirmed the efficacy with a decrease in LDL-C of 17.4% and have demonstrated an excellent safety and tolerability profile. The potential for a pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction between ezetimibe and various statins and the efficacy and safety or the co-administration of ezetimibe and statins have been evaluated in different phase I/II studies: ezetimibe had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of simvastatin or atorvastatin. Ezetimibe 10 mg co-administrated with the starting dose of any statin induced a mean 18% additive LDL-C lowering effect. This additive 18% reduction in LDL-C is achieved in one step compared with the three steps necessary with statin monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12427413
We sought to evaluate the relative effects of low doses of pravastatin (20 mg/day) and simvastatin (10 mg/day) on indices of cardiac allograft rejection. We further examined the relative efficacy and safety of these two drugs on lipid-lowering in heart transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12427649
Both statins and vitamin E, by reducing the rate of lipid peroxidation, may interfere with oxidative stress, but the impact of their combination is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12429006
Chlamydia pneumoniae has been detected in atherosclerotic plaques, while seropositivity to this organism confers a slightly increased risk of coronary events. However, no aetiological link has been established; a major difficulty when investigating this link is the lack of a gold standard for diagnosing chronic vessel infection. The outcomes of case-control studies and prospective trials of macrolides in treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disease have been ambiguous but suggest a short-term preventive effect. Whether this is due to the antimicrobial or anti-inflammatory activity of the macrolides is unknown. Larger and longer prospective trials currently under way may provide better insight into the association of C. pneumoniae with cardiovascular disease. At present, there is no justification for treating cardiovascular disease with antibiotics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12429870
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD), especially coronary heart disease (CHD), are the most important causes of death in industrialized countries. Increased concentrations of total plasma homocysteine (tHcy) have been associated with an increased risk of CHD. Assuming that this relation is causal, a lower tHcy concentration will reduce the occurrence and recurrence of CHD. Therefore, it is important to know which factors determine the tHcy concentration. In the general population, the most important modifiable determinants of tHcy are folate intake and coffee consumption. Smoking and alcohol consumption are also associated with the tHcy concentration, but more research is necessary to elucidate whether these relations are not originating from residual confounding due to other lifestyle factors. The most important nonmodifiable determinant is the 677 C>T polymorphism in the gene that encodes methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), a regulating enzyme in homocysteine metabolism. Especially subjects with the homozygous form of this polymorphism (i.e., 677TT genotype) and a low folate status have elevated tHcy concentrations. Specific clinical conditions like the use of antiepileptic drugs or methotrexate, renal failure, cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, and hypothyroidism may lead to elevated tHcy concentrations. The available epidemiological evidence indicates that an increased tHcy concentration is not an important risk factor for CHD in healthy subjects. However, prospective studies, which included subjects at high risk of CHD, and secondary prevention trials with intermediary endpoints consistently show that elevations in the tHcy concentration may be an important risk factor in these subjects for a (recurrent) CHD event. The induction of vascular endothelial dysfunction by homocysteine may underlie this increased risk. Ongoing intervention trials will indicate whether homocysteine-lowering through vitamin supplementation, prevents CHD in the treatment groups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12431639
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12433505
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12433885
To assess hypertension control in patients admitted to hospital for an acute coronary event and to investigate the influence on prognosis of controlling hypertension before hospital discharge.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12434726
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12436350
Sterol regulatory elements binding factor-1a (SREBF-1a) and SREBF cleavage activating protein (SCAP) regulate lipids homeostasis. Polymorphisms in SREBF-1a and SCAP could affect plasma levels of lipids and risk of atherosclerosis. We determined association of SREBF-1a -36del/G and SCAP 2386A/G genotypes with plasma levels of lipids, severity and progression/regression of coronary atherosclerosis, and response to treatment with fluvastatin in a well-characterized Lipoprotein Coronary Atherosclerosis Study population. Plasma lipids and quantitative indices of coronary atherosclerosis were obtained at baseline and 2.5 years following randomization to fluvastatin or placebo in 372 subjects. Fluvastatin reduced plasma levels of total cholesterol by 16%, LDL-C by 25%, and ApoB by 16% and increased plasma levels of HDL-C by 9% and apoA-1 by 7%. Distributions of SREBF-1a SCAP genotypes were 60 GG, 172 del-G and 140 del-del and 88 GG, 188 GA and 96 AA, respectively. There were no significant differences in baseline plasma levels of lipids or indices of severity of atherosclerosis among the genotypes of each gene. There was a strong graded genotype-treatment interaction between SREBF-1a genotypes and change in apoA-I levels in response to fluvastatin (16.5% increase in GG, 10.5% in del/G, and 0.4% in del/del groups). Modest interactions between SREBF-1a genotypes and changes in HDL-C, and apoC-III levels in response to fluvastatin were also present. No genotype-treatment interaction for progression or regression of coronary atherosclerosis was detected. There were no significant interactions between SCAP genotypes and response to therapy. Thus we detected a strong graded interaction between SREBF-1a -36del/G genotypes and response of plasma apoA-I to treatment with fluvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12436750
This is a short historical overview on the development of important cardiovascular drugs. Agents developed during the last 75 years and with relations to German-speaking countries and the German Society of Cardiology (GSC) are primarily discussed. Other compounds, e.g., nitrates, statins or thrombolytics, which have been discovered elsewhere, are not covered in this paper.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12437408
The appropriate time to initiate antiretroviral therapy is controversial for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients with CD4 cell counts between 200/microL and 350/microL and low levels of HIV RNA, potentially leading to barriers to treatment access.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12437496
Fluvastatin was the first wholly synthetic statin to the market and is effective in reducing total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol, which translates into reductions in coronary heart disease events. The Lescol Intervention Prevention Study has established the effectiveness of the early use of statins in reducing recurrent events in high-risk patients with coronary heart disease post percutaneous coronary interventions. Fluvastatin is well-tolerated with few side effects. The occurrence of significant abnormalities in liver enzymes is infrequent, and the risk of myositis and rhabdomyolysis seems to be less than with other statins. There have been no reports of fatal rhabdomyolysis to date. The potential for drug interactions with fluvastatin is low. It seems safe in combination with cyclosporin and there have been few reports of rhabdomyolysis when using fluvastatin in combination with other lipid-lowering agents. It is nevertheless important to be vigilant for this potentially important side effect and, as with other statins, inform patients of the potential risk and suggestive symptoms. Fluvastatin provides a useful option in treating hypercholesterolaemia in patients at high risk of coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12437499
Cholesterol is an essential building block without which humans and other animals could not exist. As with most necessities, under certain conditions, excess can sharply tip the scale and lead to an unfavourable outcome. Excess cholesterol is stored as cholesteryl ester through an esterification process regulated in part by acyl coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT). ACAT is found in many tissue types which require the storage of cholesterol. Most notably, for cardiovascular disease ACAT activity is significant in intestinal and hepatic tissue and arterial macrophages. Several ACAT inhibitors have been investigated for their potential to favourably alter serum lipoprotein levels by blocking intestinal absorption, hepatic inhibition and/or slowing the progression of atherosclerosis through a non-lipid arterial inhibition. Recent evaluations of ACAT and ACAT inhibitors have provided some insight into the therapeutic potential and risks of ACAT inhibition as a means of treating atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12437511
Dyslipidaemia may be a risk factor for venous thromboembolism and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) may be protective. The current review outlines the cumulative evidence from both the basic and epidemiologic sciences for why this might be so and offers some directions for future research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12438948
Progressive nephrotoxicity caused by calcineurin inhibitor drugs contributes to the long-term decline in renal function in kidney transplant patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12438974
Rhabdomyolysis is a known complication of hepatic 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA) inhibitor (statin) therapy for posttransplant hyperlipidemia, and thus monitoring for this effect is indicated. We report a case of an herbal preparation-induced rhabdomyolysis in a stable renal-transplant recipient, attributed to the presence of red yeast rice (Monascus purpureus) within the mixture. The condition resolved when consumption of the product ceased. Rice fermented with red yeast contains several types of mevinic acids, including monacolin K, which is identical to lovastatin. We postulate that the interaction of cyclosporine and these compounds through the cytochrome P450 system resulted in the adverse effect seen in this patient. Transplant recipients must be cautioned against using herbal preparations to lower their lipid levels to prevent such complications from occurring.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12439201
Alterations in glucose and lipid metabolism, lactic acidemia, bone disorders, and abnormal body fat distribution have been recognized recently as frequent complications associated with HIV-1 infection and potent antiretroviral therapy, but limited data are available regarding the appropriate management of these disorders. These recommendations were developed to guide physicians actively involved in HIV care in the management of metabolic complications that occur primarily within the context of potent antiretroviral therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12439225
We aimed to assess whether the effectiveness of statins in the prevention of myocardial infarction, stroke and total mortality is influenced by apolipoprotein E (apoE) genotype in an elderly population. We used data from the Rotterdam Study, a prospective population-based cohort study in the Netherlands which started in 1990 and included 7983 subjects aged 55 years and older. Subjects who were treated with cholesterol lowering drugs at baseline or with a serum total cholesterol > or = 6.5 mmol/l at baseline were included. We compared the incidence of myocardial infarction, stroke and total mortality in subjects who received > or = 2 years of statin treatment with that in subjects who had been treated for less than 2 years, and in untreated subjects, using a Cox proportional hazard model with cumulative statin use defined as time-dependent covariates. The adjusted relative risk of all-cause mortality was 0.79 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.51-1.22] and of myocardial infarction and stroke 0.50 (95% CI 0.28-0.91) for subjects treated with statins for > or = 2 years compared to untreated subjects. The adjusted relative risks for subjects with the epsilon4 allele were 0.91 (95% CI 0.45-1.84) for all-cause mortality and 0.63 (95% CI 0.23-1.78) for myocardial infarction and stroke. In subjects without the epsilon4 allele, adjusted relative risks were 0.71 (95% CI 0.41-1.24) for all-cause mortality and 0.46 (95% CI 0.22-0.95) for myocardial infarction and stroke. We found a protective effect of statins on the risk of myocardial infarction and stroke that was independent of apoE genotype. The protective effect of statins on total mortality was not statistically significant, but did not seem to differ between subjects with different apoE genotypes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12439437
The development of atherosclerosis is a complex process whose central elements include the entrapment of low-density lipoprotein in the vessel wall, its subsequent oxidative modification, and the stimulation of proinflammatory gene expression leading to inflammatory cell recruitment, infiltration, and activation. High-density lipoprotein interacts with this process at multiple points, and these interactions could provide therapeutic targets to prevent, stabilize, or even promote the regression of atherosclerosis. High-density lipoprotein may retard atherosclerotic progression by promoting cholesterol efflux from the arterial wall, thereby reducing plaque lipid content as well as potentially inhibiting nascent fatty streak formation. A growing body of evidence derived from clinical trials supports the contention that the raising of high-density lipoprotein levels may confer significant cardiovascular benefit independently of low-density lipoprotein lowering. An antiatherogenic strategy focusing on high-density lipoprotein and its apolipoproteins represents a new frontier in the management of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12439630
Recent studies suggest that circulating progenitor cells contribute to the formation of new blood vessels in adults after tissue ischemia. The infusion of these progenitor cells was used as a therapeutic approach to increase vascularization. In several animal models, progenitor cells improved vascularization and capillary density after peripheral or myocardial ischemia. Moreover, transplantation or progenitor cells increased cardiac function after myocardial ischemia. These studies suggest a potential use of progenitor cells for improvement of therapeutic vasculogenesis in patients with ischemic heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12439660
Diabetic maculopathy is a common complication of diabetes mellitus, characterised by macular oedema and frequently accompanied by lipid exudation. It is the major cause of loss of vision from diabetic retinopathy. There is some evidence to implicate serum lipids in exudative maculopathy; cross-sectional studies suggest that higher serum lipid levels are found in patients with macular exudates, and prospective studies have shown an increased risk of exudative maculopathy if baseline cholesterol is higher. The treatment for diabetic maculopathy is laser photocoagulation of the pigment epithelium. With the advent of systemic lipid lowering therapy over the last decade, there may be potential for medical therapy also. There is some anecdotal evidence of the effect of lipid lowering agents (particularly statins) in reducing exudate, and a number of studies have shown that lipid lowering therapy may reduce macular exudates, but numbers in these trials are small. A randomised controlled trial is now required to investigate whether the use of systemic lipid lowering therapy is of benefit in patients with exudative maculopathy, even in the absence of dyslipidaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12439735
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12440192
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441884
Epidemiological studies have shown that plasma HDL-cholesterol is inversely related to coronary artery disease and that there is an inverse relationship between HDL-cholesterol and triglyceride levels, but it is now demonstrated that hypertriglyceridemia is an independent risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). The goal of this review is to discuss if triglycerides and HDL-cholesterol could be therapeutic targets to reduce cardiovascular risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441885
The risk of cardiovascular disease is markedly increased in people with type 2 diabetes. There is abundant epidemiological and clinical trial evidence that lipid abnormalities play a major role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic vascular disease in diabetes. Although the benefits of lipid-lowering therapy are well established in people without diabetes, the evidence in people with diabetes is not as well established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441886
Review the cellular mechanisms and clinical evidence for the use of statins in patients with unstable coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441887
Despite improvements in the early management of acute coronary syndromes, the risk of major cardiovascular complications remains high. Lipid-modifying treatment with statins has the potential to further improve outcomes through improved endothelial function, antithrombotic and antiinflammatory actions. Statins are of proven benefit in patients with stable coronary heart disease. There has been speculation on potential mechanisms of benefit but, until recently, little data on the efficacy and safety of statins in the acute setting. Recent observational studies and randomized trials have addressed some of the questions regarding early initiation of statins in acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441889
To establish the role of cholesterol-modifying therapy in stroke prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441891
Observational studies suggest a continuous positive relationship between vascular risk and cholesterol without any lower threshold level. We review recent and future clinical trials addressing the question of optimal treatment goals for cholesterol reduction and how these relate to present guidelines. With increasing focus on greater cholesterol reduction, new approaches to lipid-lowering therapy are being developed; we discuss some of these agents including the new statin, rosuvastatin and novel cholesterol transport inhibitors such as ezetimibe.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12441896
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12444184
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12444536
Modern management of cardiovascular risk depends on assessment of cardiovascular risk factors. Hypertension and hyperlipidaemia are synergistic risk factors for cardiovascular events. Both show a degree of cross-correlation through sharing mechanisms of pathogenesis including insulin resistance and endothelial dysfunction. This article reviews the common pathways leading to dyslipidaemia and hypertension and the effects diet and lipid-lowering drug therapies have had on correcting blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension. Both statins and fibrates have shown a capability to lower blood pressure by up to 8/5 and 15/10 mmHg respectively, in some small-scale clinical trials and have effects on arterial wall structure and hence pulse wave velocity. This blood pressure action may account for some of the clinical effects of lipid-lowering drugs on cardiovascular risk. Thus, lipid lowering may provide an additional method of correcting hypertension in some high-risk patients. However, data from large-scale intervention trials are either absent or ambiguous. Definitive large-scale trials to investigate the antihypertensive effects of lipid-lowering drugs are required, although end point studies examining the interaction of lipid-lowering and antihypertensive drugs to determine optimum combinations are already under way.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12445025
To compare the lipid-regulating effects and steady-state pharmacokinetics of rosuvastatin, a new synthetic hydroxy methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, following repeated morning and evening administration in volunteers with fasting serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations < 4.14 mmol l-1.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12446053
This study was designed to analyze the association among cholesterol levels, lipid-lowering treatment, and progression of aortic stenosis (AS) in the community.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12446061
This study evaluated the effect of statin therapy on mortality in individuals with significant coronary artery disease (CAD) stratified by age.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12447357
Although a wide range of risk factors for coronary heart disease have been identified from population studies, these measures, singly or in combination, are insufficiently powerful to provide a reliable, noninvasive diagnosis of the presence of coronary heart disease. Here we show that pattern-recognition techniques applied to proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR) spectra of human serum can correctly diagnose not only the presence, but also the severity, of coronary heart disease. Application of supervised partial least squares-discriminant analysis to orthogonal signal-corrected data sets allows >90% of subjects with stenosis of all three major coronary vessels to be distinguished from subjects with angiographically normal coronary arteries, with a specificity of >90%. Our studies show for the first time a technique capable of providing an accurate, noninvasive and rapid diagnosis of coronary heart disease that can be used clinically, either in population screening or to allow effective targeting of treatments such as statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12450605
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12451319
Epidemiologic studies have shown that hypercholesterolemia is associated with increased left ventricular (LV) mass. Free radicals have been shown to be increased in hyperlipidemic patients. This study sought to determine whether pravastatin administration can affect LV mass in patients with untreated total cholesterol >or=240 mg/dl by reducing 8-iso-prostaglandin F concentrations, a reliable marker of oxidant injury. Fifty patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups, one with (n = 25) and one without (n = 25) treatment with pravastatin (10 or 20 mg/d). A group of normolipidemic control subjects was used for comparison. Echocardiograms were performed at baseline and after 6 months of therapy. Hyperlipidemic patients showed significant increases in LV mass index at baseline compared with the normolipidemic control group (125 +/- 8 vs. 107 +/- 5 g/m, p < 0.0001). Pravastatin treatment significantly reduced plasma total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, as well as increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. After 6 months of therapy with pravastatin, the magnitude of LV mass regression correlated with the magnitude of inhibition of free radical formation assessed by 8-iso-prostaglandin F formation (r = 0.67, p = 0.002). Multivariate analysis revealed that regression of LV mass was significantly correlated only with the changes in 8-iso-prostaglandin F (p < 0.0001, adjusted R = 0.83). These findings demonstrated for the first time that in addition to its primary anti-lipidemia, pravastatin may have an additional effect of reducing LV mass-independent lipid-lowering effects, possibly through attenuation of free radical formation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12451426
. The beneficial effects of statins on clinical events may involve mechanisms that modify endothelial dysfunction, plaque stability, thrombus formation, and inflammatory responses. To determine the effect of atorvastatin on blood rheology in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), we prospectively studied serum lipid concentration, red cell cholesterol content, lipid peroxidation and erythrocyte membrane fluidity. The aim of this paper was to evaluate the effects of atorvastatin therapy on the erythrocyte membrane structure and the hypolipemic efficacy in patients with FH. MATERIALS, METHODS AND SUBJECTS STUDIED:. The study involved 31 patients with FH and 20 healthy individuals as a control group. The program lasted 20 weeks. For the first 8 weeks, the patients were on a hypolipemic diet only and for the subsequent 12 weeks, alongside the diet they were given 10 mg atorvastatin per day. Laboratory tests were carried out before and after 4 weeks and 12 weeks of the pharmacological treatment. Erythrocyte membrane fluidity was determined using the spin labeled method. The peroxidation of lipids was measured in whole erythrocytes as well as in erythrocyte plasma membranes by means of the thiobarbituric acid technique.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12451430
To examine the effect of fluconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19, on the pharmacokinetics of rosuvastatin in healthy volunteers. Significantly increased plasma concentrations of fluvastatin have been observed following co-administration with fluconazole.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12453566
Flavonoids are plant pigments that are synthesised from phenylalanine, generally display marvelous colors known from flower petals, mostly emit brilliant fluorescence when they are excited by UV light, and are ubiquitous to green plant cells. The flavonoids are used by botanists for taxonomical classification. They regulate plant growth by inhibition of the exocytosis of the auxin indolyl acetic acid, as well as by induction of gene expression, and they influence other biological cells in numerous ways. Flavonoids inhibit or kill many bacterial strains, inhibit important viral enzymes, such as reverse transcriptase and protease, and destroy some pathogenic protozoans. Yet, their toxicity to animal cells is low. Flavonoids are major functional components of many herbal and insect preparations for medical use, e.g., propolis (bee's glue) and honey, which have been used since ancient times. The daily intake of flavonoids with normal food, especially fruit and vegetables, is 1-2 g. Modern authorised physicians are increasing their use of pure flavonoids to treat many important common diseases, due to their proven ability to inhibit specific enzymes, to simulate some hormones and neurotransmitters, and to scavenge free radicals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12454325
In guidelines for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease, systolic blood pressure (SBP) or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is treated with medication at lower levels of risk than those at which statin treatment is recommended for cholesterol lowering. Aim: To compare the potential benefits of antihypertensive medication and statin therapy in hypertensive patients, and examine whether this policy is rational.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12454344
Treatment of coronary artery spasm can be difficult; up to 25% of patients continue to have episodes of chest pain despite maximal therapy with calcium antagonists and nitrates. We describe the case of a 42-year-old female with severe coronary artery spasm associated with a moderately severe atherosclerotic stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery. We discuss the diagnostic value of intravascular ultrasound and treatment options for spasm associated with atherosclerotic plaques.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12457780
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12457784
Although statins reduce coronary and cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality in middle-aged individuals, their efficacy and safety in elderly people is not fully established. Our aim was to test the benefits of pravastatin treatment in an elderly cohort of men and women with, or at high risk of developing, cardiovascular disease and stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12459073
Hypercholesterolemia causes important neurodegenerative changes in the cerebral cortex, which are manifested by defects in the color perception by the neurons of Brodman area 19. Extensive interventional epidemiological data from both primary and secondary-prevention clinical trials indicate that cardiac ischemic events decrease when total cholesterol or LDL-C is reduced. Our goal was to elucidate the effects of diet compared with a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (pravastatin) on color perception using computerized chromatic analysis (CCA) and plasma cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12460045
Several drugs have been proposed to improve vascular access patency based on favorable anticoagulant, antiplatelet, or vascular-remodeling properties. However, there is little evidence to guide drug strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12460866
Statins are widely used to treat hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerotic disease. Noninvasive MRI allows serial monitoring of atherosclerotic plaque size changes. Our aim was to investigate the effects of lipid lowering with simvastatin on atherosclerotic lesions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12460867
Although CD40 signaling participates in atherosclerosis, links between lipid risk factors and this inflammatory pathway remain obscure. Cardiovascular risk reduction by 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) may involve actions beyond lipid lowering, including reduced inflammation. Therefore, this study analyzed whether oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) induces CD40/CD40L expression on cells implicated in atherogenesis and whether statins affect their expression in vitro as well as the expression of soluble CD40L (sCD40L) in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12460961
Three recent nested case-control studies conducted in automated databases suggest that users of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) have a risk of hip and other osteoporotic fractures half that of non-users of any lipid-lowering drug. However, this comparison may be biased by unmeasured factors associated with treated hyperlipidemias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12460995
Cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks) are required for replication of viruses that replicate only in dividing cells, such as adeno- and papillomaviruses. Recently, cdks have been shown to be required also for replication of viruses that can replicate in non-dividing cells, such as HIV-1 and herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and -2). In these experiments, pharmacological cdk inhibitors (PCIs) were shown to have potent antiviral activity in vitro against HIV-1, HSV-1 and -2, human cytomegalovirus, varicella-zoster virus, and to inhibit specific functions of other viruses. Since two PCIs, flavopiridol and roscovitine, are proving to be non-toxic in human clinical trials against cancer, PCIs may be useful as antivirals. As significant advantages, PCIs are active in vitro against many viruses, including drug-resistant strains of HIV-1 and HSV-1, and mutant strains of HIV-1 or HSV-1 resistant to PCIs have not been identified in spite of intense efforts. Furthermore, the antiviral effects of a PCI and a conventional antiviral drug are additive. The aetiopathogenesis of several diseases, such as Kaposi's sarcoma, HPV-induced cervical carcinoma and HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN), among others, includes replication or expression of proteins by viruses that require cdks. Thus, PCIs could target both the aetiological agent (the virus) and the pathogenic mechanisms (cell replication). Two important questions regarding the antiviral activities of PCIs are the focus of current research efforts, (i) the identity of the specific cdks that mediate the antiviral activities of PCIs, and (ii) whether PCIs have antiviral activity in vivo at non-toxic doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12461482
The poor prognosis of coronary artery disease along with the inaccuracy of available testing methods have favoured the development of new screening techniques. One such innovation involves measuring the coronary artery calcium score (CAC). Through computed tomography, this test quantifies the amount of calcium deposited in coronary arteries, itself a reflection of the degree of atherosclerosis. This investigation is a prospective study of 48 diabetic subjects comparing the performance of CAC score with the gold standard testing methods. The results of our study showed that, due to its high negative predictive value, 5 invasive tests were performed needlessly as these subjects had very low CAC scores. At this time, the CAC score is not recommended for every patient but rather on a case-by-case basis. However, it may soon emerge as the next step after the ECG in the evaluation of coronary artery disease. This would alleviate the need for more invasive tests in those patients for whom such investigations are deemed unnecessary. The CAC score, when matched for age, sex and other variables, could also serve as an indication for prescribing medications such as statins, along with other therapeutic interventions. Diabetologists, cardiologists and radiologists must work together in order to gain a better understanding of these new techniques. This may facilitate the emergence of a new approach to the treatment of coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12462519
The development of arteriosclerosis is the limiting factor for the long-term survival and the major cause of mortality in patients with heart transplants. Various factors, including oxidative stress, contribute to the progression of the disease. In a recent clinical trial using the intravascular ultrasound technique, which detects the early stages of disease development, supplementation with vitamins C and E retarded the progression of coronary arteriosclerosis during the early stage following cardiac transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12463722
Intermittent claudication (IC) is the symptomatic expression of peripheral arterial disease (PAD), which itself is a manifestation of systemic atherosclerosis. Like other forms of atherosclerosis, PAD is associated with elevated rates of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality. Until recently, therapeutic options for the treatment of the symptoms of IC have been limited, and the efficacy of available treatment has been questioned. Cilostazol, a selective phosphodiesterase III inhibitor with vasodilator, antiplatelet, and antiproliferative properties, has recently been approved for the treatment of IC symptoms in the United States. Cilostazol significantly improves maximal and pain-free walking distances. Clinical studies have also demonstrated that cilostazol favorably alters plasma lipids (elevates HDL-cholesterol, lowers triglycerides). These properties may contribute to the benefit of this drug in IC and in other diseases secondary to atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12463730
The effect of rosuvastatin on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin was assessed in 18 healthy male volunteers in this double-blind, randomized, two-way crossover trial. Volunteers were dosed with rosuvastatin (40 mg once daily) or placebo to steady state before being given a single dose of digoxin 0.5 mg. Blood and urine samples for the measurement of serum and urine digoxin concentrations were collected up to 96 hours following dosing. The effect of rosuvastatin was assessed by constructing 90% confidence intervals (CIs) around the treatment ratios (rosuvastatin + digoxin/placebo + digoxin) for digoxin exposure. The geometric least square mean AUC(0-t) and Cmax of digoxin were only 4% higher when the drug was coadministered with rosuvastatin compared to placebo. The 90% CIs for both treatment ratios (AUC(0-t) = 0.88-1.24; Cmax = 0.89-1.22) fell within the prespecified margin of 0.74 to 1.35; therefore, no significant pharmacokinetic interaction occurred between rosuvastatin and digoxin. The geometric mean amount of digoxin excreted into the urine and its renal clearance were similar with rosuvastatin and placebo. These results demonstrate that rosuvastatin has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. Coadministration of rosuvastatin and digoxin was well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12466006
Voriconazole, a broad-spectrum triazole antifungal agent, inhibits the cytochrome P450-dependent enzyme 14-alpha-sterol demethylase, thereby disrupting the fungal membrane and stopping fungal growth. The drug shows excellent in vitro activity against Aspergillus spp., including itraconazole- and amphotericin B-resistant A. fumigatus isolates. At 12 weeks, 52.8% of voriconazole recipients achieved a successful outcome (complete or partial response) versus 31.6% of amphotericin B recipients in a randomised, nonblind trial in 392 patients (aged > or =12 years) with invasive aspergillosis. Patients received intravenous voriconazole (6 mg/kg once every 12 hours on day 1, then 4 mg/kg once every 12 hours for > or =7 days; patients could then be switched to oral voriconazole 200mg once every 12 hours) or intravenous amphotericin B (1 to 1.5 mg/kg/day for > or=14 days). At the investigators' discretion, those who failed to respond to or experienced toxicity with the initial randomised drug could be switched to other licensed antifungal therapy. Voriconazole was generally well tolerated. The most common treatment-related adverse events were transient visual disturbances (approximately 30% of patients) and skin rashes (6%). Voriconazole was generally better tolerated than amphotericin B; voriconazole recipients experienced significantly (p < 0.02 both comparisons) fewer treatment-related adverse events or serious adverse events. The incidence of visual disturbances was significantly (p < 0.001) higher with voriconazole than amphotericin B treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12466341
The objective of this study was to determine the effect of slow-release (XL) fluvastatin on low density lipoprotein (LDL) subfractions in type 2 diabetes. A multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group comparison of fluvastatin XL 80 mg (n = 42) and placebo (n = 47), each given once-daily for 8 wk, in 89 patients with type 2 diabetes (HbA1c: 7.2 +/- 1.0%, LDL cholesterol (LDL-C): 3.4 +/- 0.7 mmol/liter, high density lipoprotein cholesterol: 1.1 +/- 0.3 mmol/liter, and triglycerides (TG): 2.4 +/- 1.4 mmol/liter). At baseline and on treatment, plasma lipoproteins were isolated and quantified. Eight weeks of fluvastatin treatment decreased total cholesterol (-23.0%, P < 0.001), LDL-C (-29%, P < 0.001) and TG (-18%, P < 0.001), compared with placebo. At baseline, there was a preponderance of dense LDL (dLDL) (apolipoprotein B in LDL-5 plus LDL-6 > 25 mg/dl) in 79% of patients, among whom fluvastatin decreased all LDL subfractions, reductions in dLDL being greatest (-28%, P = 0.001; cholesterol in dLDL -29%). In patients with low baseline dLDL (apolipoprotein B in LDL-5 plus LDL-6 </= 25 mg/dl), but a preponderance of buoyant LDL (LDL-1 through LDL-3), fluvastatin significantly decreased only these subfractions. Fluvastatin 80 mg XL, once daily, decreased total cholesterol and total LDL-C. In patients with atherogenic dLDL, absolute changes of dLDL were most pronounced, emphasizing the value of fluvastatin treatment in type 2 diabetes. The antiatherogenic potential of fluvastatin in type 2 diabetes may thus be greater than that expected from its effects on LDL-C and TG alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12467639
Therapeutic success of statins has distinctly established inhibition of de novo hepatic cholesterol synthesis as an effective approach to lower plasma LDL-cholesterol, the major risk factor for atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease. Statins inhibit HMG CoA reductase, a rate limiting enzyme which catalyses conversion of HMG CoA to mevalonic acid. However, in this process statins also inhibit the synthesis of several non-sterols e.g. dolichols and ubiquinone, which are implicated in side effects observed with statins. This prompted many major pharmaceutical companies in 1990s to target selective cholesterol synthesis beyond farnesyl pyrophosphate. The enzymes squalene synthetase, squalene epoxidase and oxidosqualene cyclase were identified as potential targets. Though inhibitors of these enzymes have been developed, till date no compound has been reported to have entered clinical trials. We evaluated the literature to understand merits and demerits of pursuing squalene epoxidase as a target for hypocholesterolemic drug development. Squalene epoxidase catalyses the conversion of squalene to 2,3-oxidosqualene. Although it has been extensively exploited for antifungal drug development, it has received little attention as a target for hypocholesterolemic drug design. This enzyme though recognized in the early 1970s was cloned 25 years later. This enzyme is an attractive step for pharmacotherapeutic intervention as it is the secondary rate limiting enzyme and blocking cholesterol synthesis at this step may result in accumulation of only squalene which is known to be stable and non toxic. Synthesis of several potent, orally bioavailable inhibitors of squalene epoxidase has been reported from Yamonuchi, Pierre Fabre and Banyu pharmaceuticals. Preclinical studies with these inhibitors have clearly demonstrated the potential of squalene epoxidase inhibitors as hypocholesterolemic agents. Hypochloesterolemic therapy is intended for prolonged duration and safety is an important determinant in clinical success. Lack of clinical trials, despite demonstrated preclinical efficacy by oral route, prompted us to evaluate safety concerns with squalene epoxidase inhibitors. In dogs, NB-598, a potent competitive squalene epoxidase inhibitor has been reported to exhibit signs of dermatitis like toxicity which has been attributed by some reviewers to accumulation of squalene in skin cells. Tellurium, a non-competitive inhibitor of squalene epoxidase has been associated with neuropathy in weanling rats. On the other hand, increased plasma levels of squalene in animals and humans (such as occurring subsequent to dietary olive oil or squalene administration) are safe and associated with beneficial effect such as chemoprevention and hypocholesterolemic activity. In our view, high circulating levels of squalene epoxidase inhibitor may be responsible for dermatitis and neuropathy. Competitive inhibition and pharmacokinetic profile minimizing circulating plasma levels (e.g. by hepatic sequestration and high first pass metabolism) could be important determinants in circumventing safety concerns of squalene epoxidase inhibitors. Recently, cholesterol-lowering effect of green tea has been attributed to potent squalene epoxidase inhibition, which can be consumed in much higher doses without toxicological effect. These facts strengthen optimism for developing clinically safe squalene epoxidase inhibitors. Put in perspective squalene epoxidase appears to be undervalued target which merits attention for development of better hypocholesterolemic drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12468195
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a condition of unexplained hyperandrogenic chronic anovulation that most likely represents a heterogenous disorder. Its etiology remains unknown, and treatment is largely symptom based and empirical. Recent findings suggest PCOS has substantial metabolic sequelae, including risk of diabetes and possibly cardiovascular disease, and that primary treatment should focus on metabolic sequelae. The purpose of this document is to examine the best available evidence on the diagnosis and clinical management of PCOS.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12469998
We compared the implementation of secondary prevention some 18 months following acute myocardial infarction or coronary artery bypass surgery in Ireland in 1994 to that in 15 European countries, including Ireland, in 2000. While there were substantial improvements in the use of statins, b-blockers and the availability of rehabilitation programmes since the early 1990s, more patients now smoke, take no exercise and are overweight. The prevalence of non-insulin dependent diabetes has increased by 70%. In comparison with other European countries, we have the highest use of aspirin and the highest prevalence of smoking in women. Despite a considerable improvement in the use of drug therapy we will not achieve the full potential of secondary prevention unless lifestyle factors, including smoking, overweight and exercise receive greater attention by patients with coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12470209
The cell cycle is a highly conserved and ordered set of events, culminating in cell growth and division. It is tightly controlled by many regulatory mechanisms that either permit or restrain its progression. The main families of regulatory proteins that play key roles in controlling cell cycle progression are the cyclins, the cyclin dependent kinases (Cdks), their substrate proteins, the Cdk inhibitors (CKI) and the tumor suppressor gene products, p53 and pRb. Many cell cycle control genes, when deregulated, can cause cells that are not dividing to enter the cell cycle and begin to proliferate leading to cancer development. They do so by interfacing with the basic cell cycle regulatory machinery to activate cell cycle entry. There is at present much optimism about the possibility of finding anticancer drug treatment strategies that modulate cell cycle regulatory molecules. Candidate targets for such strategies include crucial cell cycle molecules involved in G(1) to S phase or G(2) to M phase transition. This review will outline the basic regulatory machinery responsible for catalyzing cell cycle entry and describe the latest advances made in the field of cell cycle regulation. The basis of targeting the cell cycle particularly the Cdks as an approach to developing novel, specific and perhaps more effective anticancer treatments will be discussed. Examples of novel cell cycle-targeting agents that are in, or are close to being in clinical trials will be provided.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12470982
The consequences of premature menopause are of great importance to cancer survivors. Oestrogen replacement therapy (with and without added progestins) is the most extensively researched agent for the treatment and prevention of menopausal problems. While this may be appropriate for symptom control in patients with tumours that are not hormone responsive, patients with hormone dependent tumours will require safe and effective alternative treatments for menopausal symptoms. This paper will discuss both the short-term and long-term consequences of the menopause in cancer survivors and will also offer various management strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12471656
Of 2,626 patients admitted for acute coronary syndromes and participating in the PREVENIR 1 and 2 registries, 202 (8%) were aged less than 45 years. Younger patients were more often smokers (79% versus 37%), but systemic hypertension and diabetes were less frequent. Reperfusion therapy was more frequently used in the younger patients (63% versus 46%). At hospital discharge, aspirin and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were prescribed as often in younger and older patients. In contrast, beta-blocking agents and statins were used more often in the younger patients. More younger patients participated in a cardiac rehabilitation programme. Left ventricular ejection fraction was less altered in the younger age group and none of the younger patients died between hospital discharge and six months follow-up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12472040
Medical management of PAD is a considerable challenge. Although patients typically present with IC, there is a substantial pool of subclinical PAD patients. PAD, whether symptomatic or not, confers a marked cardiovascular risk; with affected patients dying of heart attack or stroke, identification of index patients and aggressive medical treatment can offer health benefits far in excess of improvement in IC or related symptoms. Management of risk factors, lifestyle interventions, and pharmacologic treatment with agents to provide symptomatic relief have a central role in improving function and quality of life and slowing the progression to advanced endpoints, such as the rest pain, nonhealing ulcers, gangrene, and cardiac death. Surgical or percutaneous revascularization for aorto-iliac disease provides durable treatment for individuals with disabling symptoms. Newer treatments, such as angiogenic growth factor treatments, are being tested in clinical trials and seem promising. There are limited treatment choices for individuals with predominant infra-popliteal disease. In the future, the availability of newer stents and therapies to prevent re-stenosis may extend the applicability of endovascular treatment to difficult-to-treat infra-inguinal lesions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12472041
The patient with CLI is challenging and requires a multi-disciplinary approach to effective management that involves a team of individuals proficient in various aspects of vascular disease. Fig. 4 details the approach at the University of Michigan's comprehensive vascular medicine program.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12472373
The new combination of niacin extended-release (ER) and lovastatin (Advicor, Kos pharmaceuticals), is a powerful lipid modifying agent and takes advantage of the different mechanisms of action of its two components. Niacin decreases hepatic atherogenic apolipoprotein (apo) B production whereas lovastatin increases apoB removal. Whereas niacin potently increases high density lipoprotein (HDL) levels by decreasing hepatic removal of antiatherogenic apoA-I particles, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMGCoA) reductase inhibitors ('statins') appear to increase production of apoA-I. Although there is no outcome data with this combination product, each component has been independently associated with a reduction of cardiovascular event risk by approximately 25 - 35%. The results of a long-term trial in 814 patients, where > 600 had been treated for 6 months and > 200 for 1 year, found reductions of 45 and 42% in low density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides, respectively, at the maximum dose (niacin ER 2000 mg/ lovastatin 40 mg). HDL cholesterol increased by 41%. In addition, the combination decreased lipoprotein (a) by 25% and C-reactive protein by 24%. The niacin ER/lovastatin combination was generally well-tolerated. Flushing was the most common side effect, with approximately 10% of patients intolerant to niacin ER/lovastatin. Hepatotoxicity in this study was 0.5% and myopathy did not occur. Recent studies indicate that niacin can be used safely in diabetic patients who have good glucose control (HbA(1c) < 9%). Once-daily niacin ER/lovastatin exhibits potent synergistic actions on multiple lipid risk factors and represents an effective new agent in the clinical management of dyslipidaemia. Outcome studies are needed to evaluate if combination therapy would result in additive effects on morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12473249
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12473253
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12473254
To estimate the cost-effectiveness of the current screening programme on Familial Hypercholesterolaemia (FH) in relatives of diagnosed FH-patients in The Netherlands.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12473255
Residual ischaemia following acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is related to an adverse outcome, although the effect of early initiation of statin therapy is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12473258
Coronary stent deployment is a major advance in percutaneous treatment of ischaemic heart disease, but 10-40% of patients still develop angiographic restenosis by 6 months due to neointimal hyperplasia. Patient-specific factors, including genetic factors, can contribute to this process. We have conducted a prospective study to examine the involvement of genetic risk factors (eNOS, ACE, MMP-3, IL-6, and PECAM-1) in restenosis following coronary stent deployment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12473877
To determine the relative importance of recognised risk factors for non-haemorrhagic stroke, including serum cholesterol and the effect of cholesterol-lowering therapy, on the occurrence of non-haemorrhagic stroke in patients enrolled in the LIPID (Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaemic Disease) study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12475448
We sought to report the first and repeat events and to separate spontaneous and procedure-related events over two years in the Fast Revascularization during InStability in Coronary artery disease (FRISC-II) invasive trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12475449
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12478088
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12478495
The patient with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) poses a special problem. Not only are vascular surgeons interested in preventing the limb complications of PAD, but also the associated cardiac and neurological events that contribute greatly to the overall morbidity and mortality of their patients. Therefore, the control of atherosclerotic risk factors must be considered as important a therapeutic goal as surgical and endovascular control of limb ischemia. To accomplish this, the "complete" vascular surgeon must understand the common lipid abnormalities, their diagnosis, and treatment. The scientific literature on this subject is truly overwhelming in volume and scope, yet an overly simple "cook book" approach is not adequate or appropriate. This report summarizes current knowledge on this topic, providing sufficient essential detail for the reader to understand why, when, and how to administer which lipid-controlling agents to patients with PAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12478816
The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate the magnitude of the variations in lipid levels in a large population of patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction (MI) and unstable angina (UA). Clinical data and blood samples were prospectively collected from consecutive patients with MI and UA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12479491
To evaluate the amount of variation in diabetes practice patterns at the primary care provider (PCP), provider group, and facility level, and to examine the reliability of diabetes care profiles constructed using electronic databases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12479764
Studies have demonstrated that statins administered to individuals with risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) reduce CHD events. However, many of these studies were too small to assess all-cause mortality or outcomes in important subgroups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12479771
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12480041
Severe aortic plaques seen on transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) are a high-risk cause of stroke and peripheral embolization. Evidence to guide therapy is lacking. Retrospective information was obtained regarding the occurrence of embolic events (stroke, transient ischemic attacks, or peripheral emboli) in 519 patients with severe thoracic aortic plaque seen on TEE since 1988. Treatment with statins, warfarin, or antiplatelet medications was noted. Treatment was not randomized. In a matched-paired analysis, each patient taking each class of therapy was matched for age, gender, previous embolic event, hypertension, diabetes, congestive failure, and atrial fibrillation to someone not taking that medication. Multivariate analysis was also performed. An embolic event occurred in 111 patients (21%). Multivariate analysis showed that statin use was independently protective against recurrent events (p = 0.0001). Matched analysis also showed a protective effect of statins (p = 0.0004; absolute risk reduction 17%, relative risk reduction 59%, number needed to treat [n = 6]). No protective effect was found for warfarin or antiplatelet drugs. The odds ratio for embolic events was 0.3 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.2 to 0.6) for statin therapy, 0.7 (95% CI 0.4 to 1.2) for warfarin, and 1.4 (95% CI 0.8 to 2.4) for antiplatelet agents. Thus, there is a protective effect of statin therapy, and no significant benefit of warfarin or antiplatelet drugs on the incidence of stroke and other embolic events in patients with severe thoracic aortic plaque on TEE.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12480043
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12480044
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12480052
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12481201
Fenofibrate is a fibric acid derivative that has been marketed since the mid-1970's (1998 in the United States). Its active metabolite, fenofibric acid, is responsible for the primary pharmacodynamic effects of the drug: reductions in total plasma cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and very low-density lipoprotein concentrations and increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoproteins AI and AII concentrations. These effects are mediated by activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR(alpha)). The drug has broad spectrum utility, with documented efficacy in Fredrickson types IIa, IIb, III, IV, and V hyperlipidemias. Fenofibrate is well tolerated, with digestive and musculoskeletal side effects similar to those of other fibrates. Results of the initial cardiovascular morbidity/mortality outcomes study with fenofibrate (known as DAIS [Diabetes Atherosclerosis Intervention Study]) were encouraging vis--vis slowing of atherosclerotic progression in the coronary vasculature of type II diabetics. The results of other ongoing outcome trials are eagerly awaited. These results will help to establish the overall place of fenofibrate in the hypolipidemic armamentarium.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12481202
Rosuvastatin, a new statin, has been shown to possess a number of advantageous pharmacological properties, including enhanced HMG-CoA reductase binding characteristics, relative hydrophilicity, and selective uptake into/activity in hepatic cells. Cytochrome p450 (CYP) metabolism of rosuvastatin appears to be minimal and is principally mediated by the 2C9 enzyme, with little involvement of 3A4; this finding is consistent with the absence of clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions between rosuvastatin and other drugs known to inhibit CYP enzymes. Dose-ranging studies in hypercholesterolemic patients demonstrated dose-dependent effects in reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) (up to 63%), total cholesterol, and apolipoprotein (apo) B across a 1- to 40-mg dose range and a significant 8.4% additional reduction in LDL-C, compared with atorvastatin, across the dose ranges of the two agents. Rosuvastatin has also been shown to be highly effective in reducing LDL-C, increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and producing favorable modifications of other elements of the atherogenic lipid profile in a wide range of dyslipidemic patients. In patients with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia, rosuvastatin has been shown to produce large decreases in LDL-C at starting doses, thus reducing the need for subsequent dose titration, and to allow greater percentages of patients to attain lipid goals, compared with available statins. The substantial LDL-C reductions and improvements in other lipid measures with rosuvastatin treatment should facilitate achievement of lipid goals and reduce the requirement for combination therapy in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia. In addition, rosuvastatin's effects in reducing triglycerides, triglyceride-containing lipoproteins, non-HDL-C, and LDL-C and increasing HDL-C in patients with mixed dyslipidemia or elevated triglycerides should be of considerable value in enabling achievement of LDL-C and non-HDL-C goals in the numerous patients with combined dyslipidemias or metabolic syndrome who require lipid-lowering therapy. Rosuvastatin is well tolerated alone, and in combination with fenofibrate, extended-release niacin, and cholestyramine, and has a safety profile similar to that of currently marketed statins. A large, long-term clinical trials program is under way to investigate the effects of rosuvastatin on atherosclerosis and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12481542
In the new millennium, humans will be traveling to Mars and eventually beyond with skeletons that respond to microgravity by self-destructing. Meanwhile in Earth's aging populations growing numbers of men and many more women are suffering from crippling bone loss. During the first decade after menopause all women suffer an accelerating loss of bone, which in some of them is severe enough to result in "spontaneous" crushing of vertebrae and fracturing of hips by ordinary body movements. This is osteoporosis, which all too often requires prolonged and expensive care, the physical and mental stress of which may even kill the patient. Osteoporosis in postmenopausal women is caused by the loss of estrogen. The slower development of osteoporosis in aging men is also due at least in part to a loss of the estrogen made in ever smaller amounts in bone cells from the declining level of circulating testosterone and is needed for bone maintenance as it is in women. The loss of estrogen increases the generation, longevity, and activity of bone-resorbing osteoclasts. The destructive osteoclast surge can be blocked by estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) as well as antiosteoclast agents such as bisphosphonates and calcitonin. But these agents stimulate only a limited amount of bone growth as the unaffected osteoblasts fill in the holes that were dug by the now suppressed osteoclasts. They do not stimulate osteoblasts to make bone--they are antiresorptives not bone anabolic agents. (However, certain estrogen analogs and bisphosphates may stimulate bone growth to some extent by lengthening osteoblast working lives.) To grow new bone and restore bone strength lost in space and on Earth we must know what controls bone growth and destruction. Here we discuss the newest bone controllers and how they might operate. These include leptin from adipocytes and osteoblasts and the statins that are widely used to reduce blood cholesterol and cardiovascular damage. But the main focus of this article is necessarily the currently most promising of the anabolic agents, the potent parathyroid hormone (PTH) and certain of its 31- to 38-aminoacid fragments, which are either in or about to be in clinical trial or in the case of Lilly's Forteo [hPTH-(1-34)] tentatively approved by the Food and Drug Administration for treating osteoporosis and mending fractures.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12482559
Statins are known to reduce CRP concentrations, but whether high doses are more effective is not known.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12482568
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12483466
The objective was to study whether coronary blood flow or its response to pravastatin are affected by genetic variation in the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) gene. Vascular endothelial nitric oxide maintains endothelium-dependent vasodilatation and also mediates antithrombotic actions. Its formation is catalyzed by eNOS, a constitutive enzyme, which has a polymorphic site in intron 4 (4a/b). Some clinical studies have suggested an association of the rare a-allele of eNOS with coronary artery disease and myocardial infarction. We carried out a double-blind placebo-controlled study involving 43 men (aged 35+/-4 years), who were randomized to receive either 40 mg/day pravastatin ( n=21) or placebo ( n=22) for 6 months. Myocardial blood flow was measured by positron emission tomography (PET) using (15)O-labeled water. PET was performed at rest and after stimulation by adenosine infusion. PET and lipid analyses were carried out at baseline and after 6 months. eNOS genotyping was done by PCR. At baseline there were no differences in basal or adenosine-stimulated coronary blood flow between subjects with either eNOS bb or ba genotypes. At the end of the study genotypes reacted differently between pravastatin and placebo groups with respect to the change in adenosine-stimulated flow (ANCOVA P=0.008). More specifically, after pravastatin treatment the adenosine-stimulated flow increased by 54.5% in men with the eNOS ba genotype, whereas in the men with the bb genotype no significant change in flow was observed ( P=0.002 for ba versus bb). In the placebo group there were no significant changes in blood flow from the baseline values ( P=0.916 for ba versus bb). After pravastatin treatment both genotype groups showed a similar decrease in serum total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( P<0.00001 for both). Our results suggest that adenosine-stimulated myocardial perfusion improves after treatment with pravastatin in subjects with the eNOS ba genotype but not in those with the bb genotype. This effect is not dependent on the decrease of serum cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12483541
Statins are inhibitors of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, a ubiquitous enzyme critical for the biosynthesis of cholesterol. Because of their cholesterol-lowering properties, statins are extensively used in medical practice, and large clinical trials have shown that statins effectively reduce cardiovascular related morbidity and mortality. In the past 5 years, an important, new concept suggesting that the cardioprotective effects of statins are not necessarily related to cholesterol-lowering actions has emerged. Indeed, in vivo findings have clearly shown that statins exert anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects and that they modulate vascular remodeling under normocholesterolemic conditions. These pleiotropic properties of statins affect important molecules in vascular biology and help preserve endothelial function in acute and chronic inflammatory states of the cardiovascular system, including coronary and cerebral artery diseases, diabetes, and atherosclerosis. Emerging evidence indicates that the microcirculation is a crucial target for the pleiotropic actions of statins because of its important role in regulating blood flow, leukocyte-endothelium interactions, and vascular remodeling. Accordingly, this review focuses on the role that the microcirculation plays in the vascular protective action of statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12485557
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12485562
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12486428
The primary objective of this trial was to compare the efficacy of rosuvastatin with that of pravastatin and simvastatin for lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12486429
Despite the demonstrated benefits of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction in reducing the risk of coronary heart disease, many patients receiving lipid-lowering therapy fail to achieve LDL-C goals. We compared the effects of rosuvastatin and atorvastatin in reducing LDL-C and achieving LDL-C goals in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12487148
Solute carrier (SLC) proteins have critical physiological roles in nutrient transport and may be utilized as a mechanism to increase drug absorption. However, we have little understanding of these proteins at the molecular level due to the absence of high-resolution crystal structures. Numerous efforts have been made in characterizing the peptide transporter (PepT1) and the apical sodium dependent bile acid transporter (ASBT) that are important for both their native transporter function as well as targets to increase absorption and act as therapeutic targets. In vitro and computational approaches have been applied to gain some insight into these transporters with some success. This represents an opportunity for optimizing molecules as substrates for the solute transporters and providing a further screening system for drug discovery. Clearly the future growth in knowledge of SLC function will be led by integrated in vitro and in silico approaches.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12488647
Previous studies suggested that hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) promotes collateral circulation in ischemic limbs of rabbits. The present study was designed to determine the association between treatment with pravastatin and the development of coronary collateral circulation as assessed by the Rentrop Score in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) in a case-control study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12489273
Chemoprevention holds great promise as a complement to traditional CRC screening and treatment. Effective chemopreventive agents might improve patient outcomes by reducing the number of missed lesions, the morbidity associated with their identification and treatment, and their malignant potential. In addition, chemoprevention may reduce neoplastic potential simultaneously in several organs and improve clinical outcomes for persons at risk for cancers at multiple sites (e.g., colorectal and extracolonic cancers in HNPCC cohorts). Complex molecular circuits underlie the disease mosaic that is associated with aging. Several of these diseases share common mechanisms against which preventive interventions appear to be effective, such as NSAIDs for colorectal neoplasia and neurodegenerative disease, and statins for cardiovascular disease and colorectal neoplasia. Understanding these mechanisms and effects could raise prevention science to an entirely new level. The number of trials that are investigating chemopreventives against CR neoplasia is relatively small; if these agents live up to a fraction of their promise, the public health impact may be great (see Table 6).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12490687
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12492223
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12492458
Statins have been shown to have pleiotropic effects extending beyond their ability to lower cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12493130
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality among women in industrialized nations. Optimizing cardiovascular risk reduction is therefore of paramount importance, particularly among postmenopausal women, in whom the incidence of cardiovascular disease is highest. Accumulated data from a series of landmark trials unequivocally demonstrate the efficacy of statin therapy in the primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular outcomes in both men and women. Moreover, the recently released Heart Protection Study provides substantive evidence that lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol below levels currently defined as optimal by National Cholesterol Educational Program guidelines is strongly associated with further cardiovascular risk reduction, and that this benefit accrues in all subgroups of patients, including women and the elderly. Despite the ability of hormone replacement therapy to improve serum lipid profiles, randomized trials of hormone therapy have demonstrated no benefit in reducing coronary outcomes among postmenopausal women. In contrast, data from over 8,000 women enrolled in the statin trials demonstrate that lipid lowering with statins is as effective at reducing cardiovascular outcomes in women as it is in men and suggest that statins should be considered standard of care for the prevention of adverse cardiovascular events in women at risk for coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12493414
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12493534
Recent findings suggest that unfolded or misfolded proteins participate in the pathology of several neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Usually, several stress proteins and glial cells act as intracellular molecular chaperones and show chaperoning neuronal function, respectively. In the brains of patients with neurodegenerative disorders, however, stress proteins are expressed and frequently associated with protein aggregates, and glial cells are activated around degenerative regions. In addition, several stress proteins and glial cells may also regulate neuronal cell death and loss. Therefore, some types of stress proteins and glial cells are considered to be neuroprotective targets. We summarize the current findings regarding the neuroprotective effects of stress proteins and glial cells, and discuss the possibility of using this knowledge to develop new therapeutic strategies to treat neurodegeneration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12494951
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12495163
To compare the lipid-lowering effects of gemfibrozil and fenofibrate in patients with dyslipidemic coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12495166
Alzheimer's disease is the most common type of dementia in older people. It is highly prevalent, affecting 35-45% of those aged 85 years or older. This disease has devastating consequences to patients, their families, caregivers, and the health care system. Much has been learned about its pathobiology, which has led to the beta-amyloid (Abeta) hypothesis. This hypothesis continues to be the predominant postulate of the pathobiology of Alzheimer's disease. Under this hypothesis, abnormal accumulation of Abeta is followed by a cascade of neurotoxic effects, which eventually result in neurodegeneration and development of Alzheimer's disease. This is thought to be the result of altered processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), preferentially by beta- and gamma-secretase enzymes rather than nonamyloidogenic processing by alpha-secretase. The growing body of knowledge regarding the processing of APP to various forms of Abeta has resulted in new approaches to the investigation of putative anti-Alzheimer's disease compounds, including immune-based therapies and various agents that can positively affect APP processing.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12495278
Renal artery stenosis is increasingly being treated with the percutaneous insertion of stents. Little data are available to help select patients most likely to derive benefit from the procedure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12495286
Nephrotic dyslipidemia is a risk factor for the development of systemic atherosclerosis, and may aggravate glomerulosclerosis and enhance progression of glomerular disease. The greatest and most consistent reductions in LDL-cholesterol are achieved with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors but their efficacy and safety in long-term therapy need to be evaluated. In this study, we gave fluvastatin to 21 nephrotic patients and followed then up clinically, neurophysiologically and by laboratory tests. There was an improvement in the lipogram, with reductions of triglycerides (TG) (33%) and LDL (35%) at three months. There was no clinical manifestation of myopathy and CPK was normal. Electromyographic data showed significant decreases in the amplitude and duration of motor unit action potentials in the proximal muscles with statin therapy, but these changes did not amount to classic myopathy. We conclude that fluvastatin is a safe drug for long-term use in dyslipidemic nephrotic patients. However, we suggest further studies to verify whether the early electromyography (EMG) changes observed in this study may progress or not on its longer term use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12498006
HMG-CoA reductase, in addition to being the rate-limiting enzyme in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway, is involved in the regulation of receptors for low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol. Clinical studies in men and women demonstrate that inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase (statins), by reducing plasma cholesterol, may limit the development of atherosclerosis and reduce the risk of mortality and ischemic events. Preclinical evidence suggests that under controlled conditions of plasma cholesterol lowering, statins may have ancillary properties or pleiotropic effects, which may directly limit atherosclerosis progression. In this review, pleiotropic effects have been defined as 'ancillary properties of statins, which result in hepatic and/or vascular changes that may or may not be a consequence of inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase.' Beyond the LDL lowering activity of statins, improvements have been noted in endothelial dysfunction through direct stimulation of expression of such vasodilators as nitric oxide and/or reduction in vasoconstrictors. Factors associated with atherogenesis, such as monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells, macrophage production of proinflammatory molecules and matrix metalloproteases, smooth muscle cell proliferation and migration and macrophage-induced oxidation of LDL particles have also been reduced by various statins. It is unclear whether the observed pleiotropic effects are independent of LDL-cholesterol lowering or inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase, and whether they are clinically relevant; however, one can conclude that the pleiotropic effects appear to be a class effect of statins and can be attenuated by addition of the post-reductase product, mevalonate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12498007
Statins effectively inhibit cholesterol synthesis and are currently the most commonly used drugs for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. However, patients with familial hypercholesterolemia and those unwilling to take, or who cannot tolerate statins, and patients with combined hyperlipidemia require a combination treatment. Statins combined with cholesterol malabsorption, caused, e.g., by plant stanol esters or ezetimibe (Schering-Plough Corp/Merck & Co Inc), or with bile acid malabsorption, caused by bile acid binding resins or guar gum, inhibit compensatory increases in cholesterol synthesis and effectively lower LDL cholesterol levels. Combination therapy of statins with fibrates should be controlled by lipidology experts. Recent information on indications and advantages of combining statins with n-3 fatty acids, hormone replacement therapy, or niacin, will also be discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12498009
Avasimibe (also known as CI-1011 or PD-148515) is a selective acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol O-acyltransferase (ACAT) inhibitory lipid-regulating agent under development by Pfizer (formerly Parke-Davis) for the potential treatment of hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis. The compound is currently undergoing phase III clinical trials [371470].

Abstract for pubmed ID 12498010
Pitavastatin (nisvastatin) is an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor being developed jointly by Nissan, Kowa Kogyo, Novartis and Sankyo for the potential treatment of atherosclerosis and hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12499611
Hyperlipidemia is a well-established risk factor for primary coronary heart disease (CHD). Although simvastatin is known to lower serum lipid concentrations, the protective effect of such lipid-lowering therapy against primary CHD has not been established in Japanese patients with hypercholesterolemia. The Japan Lipid Intervention Trial was a 6-year, nationwide cohort study of 47,294 patients treated with open-labeled simvastatin (5-10 mg/day) and monitored by physicians under standard clinical conditions. The aim of the study was to determine the relationship between the occurrence of CHD and the serum lipid concentrations during low-dose simvastatin treatment. Simvastatin reduced serum concentrations of total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein- cholesterol (LDL-C) and triglyceride (TG), by 18.4%, 26.8% and 16.1% on average, respectively, during the treatment period. The risk of coronary events was higher when the average TC concentration was > or =240 mg/dl and the average LDL-C concentration was > or =160 mg/dl. The incidence of coronary events increased in the patients with TG concentration > or =300 mg/dl compared with patients with TG concentration <150 mg/dl. The high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) inversely correlated with the risk of coronary events. The J-curve association was observed between average TC or LDL-C concentrations and total mortality. Malignancy was the most prevalent cause of death. The health of patients should be monitored closely when there is a remarkable decrease in TC and LDL-C concentrations with low-dose statin. A reasonable strategy to prevent coronary events in Japanese hypercholesterolemic patients without prior CHD under low-dose statin treatment might be regulating the serum lipid concentrations to at least <240 mg/dl for TC, <160 mg/dl for LDL-C, <300 mg/dl for TG, and >40 mg/dl for HDL-C.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12499612
Hyperlipidemia is primarily implicated in the progression of coronary heart disease (CHD) and its treatment is essential for patients with a history of CHD. Statins such as simvastatin, the lipid-lowering agents, are well-known for their ability to normalize patient's serum lipid levels. The Japan Lipid Intervention Trial study of simvastatin is the first nationwide investigation of the relationship between serum lipid levels and the development of CHD in Japanese patients with hypercholesterolemia. Of 5,127 patients, exclusively with a history of documented CHD at enrollment, 4,673 were treated with open-labeled simvastatin at an initial dose of 5-10 mg/day and were monitored for 6 years. The risk of coronary events tended to be higher in patients with a serum total cholesterol (TC) > or =240 mg/dl compared with total cholesterol <240 mg/dl. The concentration of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) positively correlated and that of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) inversely correlated with the risk of CHD. Each 10 mg/dl decrease in LDL-C and each 10 mg/dl increase in HDL-C concentration reduced the risk of CHD by 8.0% (95% confidence interval 3.8-12.0) and 28.3% (95% CI 13.9-40.3), respectively. A reasonable therapeutic strategy to reduce CHD progression in patients with prior CHD under low-dose statin treatment might be regulating the serum LDL-C concentration to at least <120 mg/dl and HDL-C >40 mg/dl, respectively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12500022
Micronized fenofibrate lowers total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol to a similar extent as statins but raises high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and lowers triglycerides to a greater extent. The comparative lipid-modifying efficacy of micronized fenofibrate and pravastatin has not been evaluated in dyslipidemic patients. This prospective, multicenter, randomized trial compared the efficacy of 3 months' treatment with micronized fenofibrate (200 mg once daily) or pravastatin (20 mg once daily) in hypercholesterolemic type IIa and mixed dyslipidemic type IIb patients. Two hundred sixty-five male and female patients (18-75 years) were recruited from 28 European centers, and 151 were analyzed. Micronized fenofibrate was at least as effective as pravastatin in reducing levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and total cholesterol in primary dyslipidemia but was significantly more effective than pravastatin in raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (respectively, 13.2% vs. 5.6%; p = 0.0084) and lowering triglycerides (-38.7% vs. -11.8%; p = 0.0001). In type IIa dyslipidemia, micronized fenofibrate was as effective as pravastatin in raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (+8.6% vs. +8.0%) but was fivefold more effective in lowering triglycerides (-34.3% vs. -7.2%; p = 0.0001). In type IIb dyslipidemic patients with low baseline high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, micronized fenofibrate was 10-fold and nearly 3-fold superior to pravastatin in raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and lowering triglycerides, respectively. Micronized fenofibrate may be considered an effective first-line therapy for patients with primary hyperlipidemia, particularly those with type IIb mixed dyslipidemia or type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12500883
Effective therapies exist for reducing mortality in persons with coronary heart disease (CHD), but they remain underused.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12501010
Statins, which competitively inhibit 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase activity and reduce mevalonate synthesis, are believed to exert a plethora of pleiotropic effects. In this report, molecular mechanisms of the inhibitory effect on plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) expression produced by cerivastatin (CRV), the most active compound in this class, were studied using monocultures of human endothelial cell line (EA.hy 926). CRV similar to another statin, lovastatin (LOV), significantly inhibited PAI-1 expression and its release from endothelial cells, nonstimulated and stimulated with TNF-alpha. The inhibitory effect of CRV could be detected at the level of PAI-1 promoter in EA.hy 926 cells transfected with plasmid p800 LUC containing PAI-1 promoter fragment (+71 to -800), as well as at the level of PAI-1 mRNA. The PAI-1 promoter activity was markedly suppressed in the nonstimulated cells and almost completely inhibited in TNF-alpha-stimulated cells. In addition, CRV at low doses (IC(50) of 4 - 6 microM) significantly inhibited mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) phosphorylation. The majority of inhibitory effects occurred at significantly lower concentrations for CRV compared to LOV. The mechanism by which CRV inhibits PAI-1 expression appears to be directly associated with geranylgeranylation of some cell proteins, since the inhibitory effect on PAI-1 expression can be reversed by geranylgeranyl-pyrophosphate but not by farnesyl-pyrophosphate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12502921
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12503944
To review the currently available information on the once-daily combination of niacin extended-release (ER)/lovastatin in the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia at high risk for cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12504665
The association between the use of calcium channel blockers (CCB) and cancer has received ample attention, but is still controversial. In this study, we have tested the hypothesis that the observed association between CCB and cancer in earlier studies could be explained by residual confounding or by misclassification of exposure because of the use of cross-sectional data on drug use. Data from the Rotterdam Study, a prospective population-based cohort study in the municipal area Ommoord, were used. The study population consisted of a cohort of 3204 participants aged 71 years or older who were followed from a baseline interview in the period 1991-1993 for the occurrence of incident cancer. Data on drug use were gathered at baseline and through the seven community pharmacies which served the Ommoord region during the study period between 1 January 1991 and 1 January 1999. Incident cancer events were gathered from a nationwide registry of hospitalisation data and from a specialised cancer centre in the Rotterdam region. We performed three analyses. First, we followed the method, and adjusted for the same risk factors, as in the earlier studies. In the second analysis, we included all risk factors that were univariately associated with cancer in the Rotterdam Study. In the third analysis, we included exposure to CCBs as time-varying co-variates, while adjusting for potential confounders. The relative risk (RR) of cancer associated with CCB was 1.4 (95% Confidence Interval (CI): 0.9-2.0) in the first analysis and lowered to 1.2 (95% CI: 0.8-1.8) upon adjustment for the different co-variates in the second. In both analyses, however, verapamil was significantly associated with cancer with RRs of 2.1 (95% CI: 1.1-4.0) and 2.0 (1.01-3.9), respectively, whereas no associations were found with the other CCB in this study, i.e. diltiazem and nifedipine. A significantly increased risk of cancer was found for intermediate daily doses of verapamil and diltiazem. Intake of other antihypertensives such as beta-blocking agents, diuretics and ACE-inhibitors was not associated with cancer. In the third analysis with exposure to CCB as time-varying co-variates, the risk increase was non-significant for use of 2 years or less, 1.0 (95% CI: 0.7-1.5), and for use for a cumulative period of more than 2 years, 1.3 (95% CI: 0.8-2.0). However, in all models the hazard ratio was statistically significantly increased for verapamil, but not for diltiazem and nifedipine. On the basis of these analyses, we found no increase in cancer in users of diltiazem and nifedipine, nor in users of other antihypertensives. In line with earlier studies, however, we found an increased risk of cancer in users of verapamil. At variance with the conclusions from several other studies, we think that it is too early to conclude that CCB are not associated with cancer.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505111
Statins have become a mainstay in the treatment of hyperlipidemia, based on their potency and favorable side-effect profile. Drug choice is presumed to be guided by the estimated degree of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowering required in a particular patient and the projected efficacy of any drug-dose combination, as contained in the package inserts for each medication. We investigated whether these expectations were met in a clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505120
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505222
This study was designed to determine whether simvastatin improves endothelial function in children with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505223
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505224
The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of ezetimibe administered with simvastatin in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505225
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505250
Little information exists to quantify the functional status and economic consequences of lipid-lowering therapy in elderly patients. We describe the design of the cost-effectiveness component of the first large, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of lipid-lowering therapy in subjects aged 70 years or older. The PROspective Study of Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk has randomized 5804 men and women 70-82 years old, with existing vascular disease or related risk factors, to receive 40 mg/d of pravastatin or placebo. The cost-effectiveness study will be based on within-trial observations of differences between the two study arms in rates of myocardial infarction, stroke and related vascular disease outcomes (including vascular dementia). In addition to comparing within-trial clinical outcomes, we will model the projected changes in life expectancy and cardiovascular outcome rates that would be seen with lifelong use of the drug, based on the risk reduction rates seen in the trial as well as baseline observational data from the three countries where the trial is being conducted (Scotland, Ireland and the Netherlands). A state transition (Markov) model will be constructed to estimate the likely states of health, functional status and health care resource utilization (including lipid-lowering drug costs) in a cohort of elderly patients with versus without pravastatin therapy over a series of 1-year cycles until death. In addition, a standard measure of utility (the Health Utilities Index) will be administered to all study subjects to permit calculation of quality-adjusted life-years gained with this regimen. This approach will make it possible to go beyond the calculation of a single endpoint for each subject, and to translate the trial findings into definitions of effectiveness and outcomes that will be relevant to the ongoing debate concerning how best to relate the benefits of such medications to their costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505562
Abciximab decreases adverse cardiac ischemic events, and in some subgroups, decreases the need for revascularization after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). However, abciximab may cause bleeding complications and thrombocytopenia after PCI. We hypothesized that the efficacy and safety of PCI would be maintained, if not improved, when performed using abciximab accompanied by only minimal doses (< or =1,000 U) of unfractionated heparin. In this prospectively designed observational study, we assessed 500 consecutive patients who underwent PCI, consisting of either stent deployment or high-speed rotational atherectomy, and who received abciximab accompanied by only a minimal dose of unfractionated heparin, as directed by a novel dosing strategy: (1) if the patient was previously receiving an infusion of heparin, then it was terminated upon arrival to the cardiac catheterization laboratory, and no further heparin was administered; or (2) if the patient was not receiving an infusion of heparin, then a single bolus infusion of 1,000 U was administered after establishment of vascular access. The median activated clotting time for the patients during PCI was 168 seconds (25% quartiles, 153 to 185). The technical success rate was 99.8%. There were no major adverse clinical events during the 24 hours after PCI. The incidence of non-Q-wave myocardial infarction was 1.6%. The incidences of major and minor bleeding complications were 0.2% and 3.6%, respectively, and the incidence of thrombocytopenia was 2.2%. During the 30 days after PCI, there was 1 major adverse clinical event (0.2%). During the 1 year after PCI, among the remaining patients, there were 92 adverse events (18.4%). We conclude that, in the context of historical data, the efficacy and safety of PCI using either stent deployment or high-speed rotational atherectomy is maintained, if not improved, when performed using abciximab accompanied by only minimal doses of unfractionated heparin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505564
The purpose of this study was to analyze long-term follow-up information from patients treated with stenting for unprotected left main coronary artery (LMCA) stenosis. Stenting of unprotected LMCA stenosis is often performed in selected patients, but the long-term safety of this therapy is not yet established. Between January 1995 and September 2000, 270 consecutive patients with unprotected LMCA stenosis and normal left ventricular function who underwent treatment at 4 clinical centers were included in this study. Data were forwarded to the coordinating center using a standard case report form. The procedural success rate was 98.9%. There were no deaths, 3 stent thromboses, and 3 Q-wave myocardial infarctions during the hospitalization. Angiographic follow-up was performed in 237 patients (follow-up rate 87.8%), and the restenosis rate was 21.1%. The reference size was an independent predictor of binary restenosis (odds ratio 0.543, 95% confidence interval 0.308 to 0.957, p = 0.03). During the follow-up period (32.3 +/- 18.5 months), there were 20 deaths (8 cardiac, 12 noncardiac) and 5 nonfatal myocardial infarctions. Target and new lesion revascularizations were required in 45 (16.7%) and 31 (11.5%) patients, respectively. The cumulative probabilities free from major adverse cardiac events were 81.9 +/- 2.4%, 78.4 +/- 2.6%, and 77.7 +/- 2.7%, respectively, at 1, 2, and 3 years. Combined coronary artery disease and postprocedural minimal luminal diameter were the significant predictors of major adverse cardiac events. Thus, the long-term prognosis of patients after stenting of unprotected LMCA stenosis was favorable in selected patients with normal left ventricular function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505568
The lipid-lowering effects of rosuvastatin and atorvastatin were determined across their dose ranges in a 6-week, randomized, double-blind trial. Three hundred seventy-four hypercholesterolemic patients with fasting low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol > or =160 but <250 mg/dl (> or =4.14 but <6.47 mmol/L) and fasting triglycerides <400 mg/dl (<4.52 mmol/L) and without active arterial disease within 3 months of entry received once-daily rosuvastatin (5, 10, 20, 40, or 80 mg [n = 209]) or atorvastatin (10, 20, 40, or 80 mg [n = 165]). The percentage decrease in plasma LDL cholesterol versus dose was log-linear for each drug, ranging from -46.6% to -61.9% for rosuvastatin 10 and 80 mg, compared with -38.2% to -53.5% for atorvastatin 10 and 80 mg. The dose curve for rosuvastatin yielded an 8.4% greater decrease in LDL cholesterol compared with atorvastatin at any given dose (p <0.001). Similarly greater decreases were observed for rosuvastatin across the dose range in total cholesterol (-4.9%), non-high-density lipoprotein (non-HDL) cholesterol (-7.0%), apolipoprotein B (-6.3%), and related ratios versus atorvastatin (all p <0.001). Because dose responses for HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and apolipoprotein A-I were non-log-linear and nonparallel between the 2 drugs, percentage changes from baseline were compared at each dose. Significantly greater increases for rosuvastatin compared with atorvastatin were observed for HDL cholesterol at 40 and 80 mg, and for apolipoprotein A-I at 80 mg. Significantly greater triglyceride decreases were seen at 80 mg with atorvastatin over rosuvastatin. Both rosuvastatin and atorvastatin were well tolerated over 6 weeks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12505569
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of lipid-lowering therapy by atorvastatin versus simvastatin on calcified plaque progression, as determined by serial electron beam tomography (EBT), in primary prevention patients. In this observational study, serial EBT was performed before and after 1.2 years of atorvastatin (n = 103) and simavastatin therapy (n = 46); approximately 50% of each group was on niacin as well, in similar doses. There were no differences in demographic parameters between the groups. Total, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and non-high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol were significantly higher in the atorvastatin group before treatment. Before treatment, EBT calcium score and volume scores were 469 and 378, respectively, in the atorvastatin patients, and 388 and 307, respectively, in the simvastatin patients (p = NS, atorvastatin vs simvastatin). After treatment, there were no differences in any lipid or EBT values between the groups. Post-treatment total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol were 156 and 79 mg/dl, respectively, in the atorvastatin cohort and 154 and 76 mg/dl, respectively, in the simvastatin group (p = NS). Calcium score and volume progressed 10.8%/year and 8.5%/year, respectively, in the atorvastatin group, and 7.5%/year and 7.8%/year in the simvastatin group (p = NS, atorvastatin vs simvastatin). We conclude that aggressive treatment with atorvastatin and simvastatin in the primary prevention population, to similar lipid levels, is associated with equal progression of EBT-determined calcified plaque. This suggests that these hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors exhibit a "class effect" with respect to progression of subclinical atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12506780
We are entering an exciting era in our understanding and management of the connective tissue diseases and, in particular, inflammatory myopathy. There is an established array of immunosuppressive regimens available to clinicians; rehabilitative and physical therapeutic interventions are evolving to provide many nonpharmacologic options to complement current therapy. Our ability to quantify [table: see text] the disease burden, using newly developed tools to distinguish myositis disease activity from disease damage, will allow us to measure with greater sensitivity the effects of treatment interventions. These measures, together with the development of international consensus regarding the standardization of many clinical trial design parameters, will enhance our capacity to conduct well-designed, prospective, multicenter studies of established and newly developed therapies. The explosion of immunopathogenetic information, in conjunction with novel biologic agents (Table 4), will afford investigators a treatment menu with multiple therapeutic options. The continuing challenge for the practitioner is the development of a logical, well-studied, multifaceted, and multidisciplinary holistic approach that optimizes the risk: benefit ratio for each individual patient and uses a rational combination of immunomodulatory agents in conjunction with ancillary measures.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12507200
CRC, the second-leading cause of cancer death in the United States, is a highly preventable disease. Ironically, available and effective screening technologies are not consistently applied, even as new ones are developed. This discordance between preventive opportunity and practice conveys a sobering message regarding nontechnologic issues that must be addressed if the promise of CRC prevention is to be realized. Our response to this message will determine the public health impact of cancer prevention. In the 1980s, cancer chemoprevention was regarded as scientific speculation. Within the last decade, however, cancer has been recognized as a late, nonobligate stage of carcinogenesis, a chronic process that provides time and targets for preventive intervention. Further advances are emerging out of rigorous clinical testing, which remains the limiting factor in transforming ingenious concepts into useful tools for the prevention of CRC. The challenges and rewards of participation in chemoprevention research--both as patients and health care providers-have never been greater.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12507668
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12508907
Toxic nodular goiter (TNG) is the most frequent cause of thyrotoxicosis in the elderly, specially in iodine deficient areas. Epidemiological studies have shown that in iodine deficient areas (Jutland) the incidence of hyperthyroidism is significantly higher with respect to areas with normal iodine intake (Iceland) and it is due to TNG. A careful epidemiological study recently carried out in Pescopagano, in southern Italy, an area characterized by a mild to moderate iodine deficiency, indicates that, in its natural history, nodular goiter contributes to the development of functional autonomy and eventually hyperthyroidism. Somatic activating mutations of the TSH receptor are involved in the pathogenesis of TNG. It is supposed that the prolonged iodine deficiency associated with chronic TSH stimulation increases the replication of follicular thyroid cells, and favor the appearance and expression of mutations of the TSH receptor gene. The clinical signs are usually more subtle than those observed in Graves' disease: a long phase of subclinical hyperthyroidism (normal circulating thyroid hormones and undetectable TSH levels) can precede the appearance of the symptoms. Cardiac symptoms are most frequent, (arrhythmia and atrial fibrillation). Thyroid scintigraphy in toxic multinodular goiter shows an uneven distribution of the radionuclide with multiple hyperfunctioning nodules and cold nodules. Thyroid US shows goiter with inhomogeneous solid nodules often with ill-defined borders. The treatment with antithyroid drug does not allow a permanent remission of hyperthyroidism, but its use is indicated to achieve euthyroidism before the definitive treatment. The definitive treatment is radioiodine or thyroidectomy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12509366
Little is known about the community management of cardiovascular disease among different gender, age or deprivation groups, even though much of the long-term treatment takes place within primary care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12509760
Target selection in drug discovery--defined here as the decision to focus on finding an agent with a particular biological action that is anticipated to have therapeutic utility--is influenced by a complex balance of scientific, medical and strategic considerations. In this article, we provide an introduction to the key issues in target selection and discuss the rationale for decision making.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12510011
Epidemiological and clinical studies have suggested that powerful cholesterol lowering may have adverse effects on mood and psychological well-being. Inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis by simvastatin (a hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor) may also reduce steroid hormone biosynthesis. To explore if mood changes are related with steroid hormone levels, we designed a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled crossover trial. The separate and combined effects of a Mediterranean-type diet intervention and treatment with simvastatin 20 mg/day PO for 12 weeks were studied in 120 hypercholesterolemic but otherwise healthy middle-aged men. Psychological functioning was assessed with questionnaires, and steroid hormone levels in blood were assayed radioimmunologically before and after the treatments. Simvastatin resulted in a statistically significant increase of depression and somatization without changes in the anxiety, hostility or aggression scores. Mood changes seemed to be unrelated with the statistically significant but clinically insignificant decline in serum testosterone levels and unrelated with the increase in serum dehydroepiandrosterone levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12510391
We evaluated the economic efficiency as well as the clinical effectiveness on serum lipid levels of a change in drug therapy from bezafibrate or a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor to fenofibrate. Subjects were 26 outpatients suffering from type IIb or type IV hyperlipidemia who visited our hospital between October 2000 and January 2001. Medication doses, and serum lipid levels were recorded prior to the change to fenofibrate and at 6 months after the change. Medical costs were also calculated at the same time points. A significant reduction in medical costs of 14.9% was observed following the change to fenofibrate. Serum lipid levels were not significantly different, although an increase in low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-cholesterol) was observed in patients changing from the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. The actual drug costs were reduced by 21.8% in the bezafibrate to fenofibrate group and by 23.7% in the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor to fenofibrate group. Although the drug costs of changing to fenofibrate decreased significantly, other costs remained almost unchanged.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12510951
A high standard of proof of efficacy and safety is required in clinical trials. This standard requires careful translation into practice, combining an evidence-based approach with clinical experience and judgment to maximise patient benefits and minimise harms. The tendency to extend application of new treatments to patient groups other than those for whom reliable data exist should be avoided. Equally, extrapolation of the data to agents of the same class untested for particular indications should not occur. If the considerable potential benefits of modern cardiovascular therapeutics are to be maximised and harms avoided, clinicians should observe these principles carefully as new treatments become accessible and are applied.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12511114
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12511759
Statins reduce the risk of myocardial infarction and stroke in patients with vascular disease. Inappropriate serum lipid determination and underuse of statins have been documented in patients with coronary artery disease. Evaluation of hyperlipidemia and treatment with statins in patients with recent ischemic cerebrovascular events have not yet been investigated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12514649
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12514650
Physician adherence to guidelines is often poor, but the reasons have not been completely studied. We investigated whether physician adherence to guidelines for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) varied by source, development methods, or the extent of their evidence-base.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12514651
Data in health research are frequently structured hierarchically. For example, data may consist of patients treated by physicians who in turn practice in hospitals. Traditional statistical techniques ignore the possible correlation of outcomes within a given practice or hospital. Furthermore, imputing characteristics measured at higher levels of the hierarchy to the patient-level artificially inflates the amount of available information on the effect of higher-level characteristics on outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12515734
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12515739
We observed that the prodrug clopidogrel was less effective in inhibiting platelet aggregation with coadministration of atorvastatin during point-of-care platelet function testing. Because atorvastatin is metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4, we hypothesized that clopidogrel might be activated by CYP3A4.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12515749
Randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that the use of statins in heart transplant patients lowers cholesterol levels and significantly reduces mortality and the development of transplant vasculopathy. The aim of the present study was to test these effects and the safety of statin therapy over an 8-year period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12517257
Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a debilitating atherosclerotic disease of the lower limbs and is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Treatment goals should be aimed at providing symptom relief (claudication) and reducing the risk of systemic cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. In the development of pharmaceutical treatment for PAD, aggressive non-pharmacological intervention and pharmacological treatment of the risk factors associated with PAD should be given. Antiplatelet therapy, aspirin, should be given to every PAD patient if there are no contraindications. Should symptoms worsen or intolerance to aspirin develop, ticlopidine or clopidogrel would be the alternative. Several pharmacological agents have been developed to improve the functional state of the claudicant and to relieve the symptoms. Many studied drugs have shown either no, small or potential benefit. With future development of new drugs for PAD, there is an absolute need for very strict, well-designed protocols in order to evaluate the claudication distance and progression of the disease, as well as the reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12517273
The use of antiangiogenic therapy is gaining momentum as a novel treatment for a number of conditions, ranging from cancer to psoriasis. This has stemmed from research in the early 1970s showing that the formation of new blood vessels by pre-existing endothelial cells is essential in tumour growth and progression. However, although antiangiogenic therapy was hailed as a new avenue of treatment for cancer, initial clinical data have been disappointing. This has led to the reassessment of antiangiogenic therapy for cancer, and new strategies have been proposed to increase the efficacy of these agents in this setting. Angiogenesis has also been implicated in other conditions that are notoriously difficult to treat, such as arteriosclerosis, arthritis, psoriasis and diabetic retinopathy. Increased understanding of the angiogenic process, the diversity of its inducers and mediators, appropriate drug schedules and the use of these agents with other modalities may lead to radically new treatment regimens for many of these conditions. The role of angiogenesis in different pathological settings, and emerging antiangiogenic agents currently in preclinical and clinical studies are discussed in this review. However, while potential benefits are profound, limitations of antiangiogenic therapy have also been identified, suggesting that there is also a need for caution in applying these compounds to the clinical setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12517361
Reproductive hormones such as estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone are synthesized from a common cholesterol precursor pathway. We hypothesized that use of statins and the resultant lower blood lipoprotein levels would be associated with lower reproductive hormone levels in women. We also sought to evaluate this association, independent of statin use, particularly among premenopausal women of childbearing age.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12519819
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12520824
Recent advances have improved the outlook for patients with stroke, Singapore's fourth leading cause of death. Stroke unit care reduces death, dependency and institutionalisation, independent of age, gender and stroke severity. Neuroimaging is essential prior to initiation of specific therapies. While computed tomography (CT) Head remains the most widely used modality, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), particularly diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) has enhanced the positive diagnosis of ischaemic stroke. General medical measures include close monitoring, adequate oxygenation, avoidance of excessive blood pressure lowering, reduction of hyperthermia, control of hyperglycaemia, adequate nutrition, prevention of complications and early rehabilitation. Despite the risk of fatal intracranial haemorrhage, thrombolysis may improve outcomes in appropriately selected patients with ischaemic stroke. No safe and effective neuroprotectant has been found. While suboccipital craniectomy is established for large cerebellar infarcts and haemorrhage, surgical evacuation of supratentorial haemorrhage has not been shown to be beneficial. Hemicraniectomy reduces mortality after massive hemispheric ischemic stroke. Early and sustained antiplatelet use after atherothrombotic stroke reduces stroke recurrence. Stroke recurrence is also reduced by sustained warfarin use for cardioembolic stroke, carotid endarterectomy for severe symptomatic internal carotid artery stenosis, blood pressure lowering starting after the acute phase of stroke and lipid lowering. On-going clinical trails are likely to provide better treatments in the near future.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12521635
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12522461
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12523463
To examine the results of meta-analyses addressing the net effect of tools and methods to enhance drug adherence in patients with hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12523682
The Carvedilol Acute Myocardial Infarction Study (CAMIS) investigates cardiac remodeling in patients (n = 250) randomized to carvedilol vs atenolol and treated for 12 months after acute myocardial infarction. In a sub-study, we compared sympathetic, hemorrheological and vascular effects in small but particularly well-matched groups of participants who had been on reasonably equipotent but unchanged doses of carvedilol (n = 10) or atenolol (n = 10) for at least 4 weeks. Blood pressures (p < 0.05), plasma adrenaline (p = 0.034), plasma vasopressin (p = 0.022) and whole blood viscosity at shear rate 0.5 cp (p = 0.050), 1.1 cp (p = 0.023), 5.8 cp (p = 0.049) and 201 cp (p = 0.060) taken in the laboratory at baseline before 2 h of using the hyperinsulinemic, isoglycemic glucose clamp were lower on carvedilol. Plasma noradrenaline was lower on carvedilol at baseline and throughout the clamp (p < 0.0005). Forearm vascular resistance as measured by plethysmography during the clamp tended to be lower on carvedilol (p = 0.074). No significant difference was found between the groups in glucose disposal rate measured by clamp, maximal forearm blood flow and minimal forearm vascular resistance after 10 min of ischemia, or in ambulatory blood pressure and heart rate taken a few days later. Thus, potential benefits of carvedilol vs atenolol were seen in these post-infarction patients in a laboratory setting. These findings suggest that the inhibitory effects on the sympathetic nervous system and related blood viscosity are stronger with carvedilol than with atenolol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12525719
To investigate control of risk factors in African American patients with previous stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12528318
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12529091
Cardiovascular disease is a common cause of morbidity and death in persons with renal insufficiency. Although 3-hydroxy-3methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) are effective for secondary prevention of cardiovascular events in the general population, they have not been specifically studied in chronic renal insufficiency.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12529900
This chapter addresses key components of screening and preventive care for the older population. The older population is heterogeneous, ranging from the competent, active, well individual to the frail, demented individual. Certain preventive measures are important for all individuals such as counseling on exercise and screening for high blood pressure. However, universal cancer, cholesterol, or dementia screening may not be cost effective and beneficial in all older adults. These preventive measures should be guided by the individuals' circumstances including their life expectancy, co-morbid illnesses, functional capacity, and quality of life. Clinicians may be able to individualize preventive medicine decisions by stratifying their patients into well and frail using the guidelines we have provided. The goal of prevention and screening in older patients is to improve function and quality of life. Primary care physicians should facilitate discussion of preventive measures with their older patients as part of their ongoing health care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12532169
The development of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) has been a very significant development in the management of coronary artery disease. Large prospective clinical trials have provided unequivocal evidence that cholesterol lowering therapy with statins reduces all-cause mortality in patients with coronary artery disease. There is now accumulating data indicating that statin treatment should be initiated early after an acute coronary syndrome. This body of evidence is based on large databases in which investigators compared outcomes among patients taking statins with those patients who were not prescribed cholesterol lowering therapy. Prospective, randomized, clinical trials also indicate that early statin therapy reduces recurrent ischemia. Finally, studies examining long-term compliance with statin therapy suggest increased adherence to therapy when statins are prescribed during the initial hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome. In tandem with these clinical observations, there is a large body of scientific data that highlights many important cellular and molecular mechanisms through which statins may confer early benefit. These effects involve relatively rapid improvement in endothelial function, antiischemic, antithrombotic and antiinflammatory actions of statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12534315
Hypercholesterolaemia is a risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). Clinical studies have shown that lowering elevated serum total cholesterol (TC) levels, and particularly low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, reduces the frequency of coronary morbidity and deaths, whereas high serum levels of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) protect against CHD. Policosanol is a cholesterol-lowering drug purified from sugar cane wax with a therapeutic dosage range from 5-20 mg/day. Atorvastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor which across its dosage range (10-80 mg/day) has shown significantly greater lipid-lowering effects than all previously marketed statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12534325
Fenofibrate is among the drugs of choice for treatment of hypertriglyceridaemia and low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol, both recognised as risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Recently, a number of studies have shown an elevation of homocysteine levels with fenofibrate or bezafibrate therapy. Homocysteine is an atherogenic amino acid derived from the methionine cycle. At present, the underlying mechanism for this elevation has not been elucidated. While deterioration of vitamin status does not seem to be involved, impairment of renal function or changes in creatine metabolism are regarded as probable mechanisms. In patients not receiving lipid-lowering drugs, vitamin supplementation with folic acid and vitamin B12 effectively reduces the plasma homocysteine level. Two studies have shown that addition of folic acid or a vitamin combination to fenofibrate prevented most of the homocysteine increase associated with fenofibrate. Although the consequence of increasing homocysteine levels for cardiovascular risk has not been proven at present, it has to be considered that fenofibrate will be given for long-term treatment. Therefore, addition of folic acid and vitamin B12 to fenofibrate can be recommended to prevent the increase of homocysteine associated with fenofibrate, or treatment could be changed to gemfibrozil, which does not increase plasma homocysteine levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12534331
Renal involvement in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a serious complication of the disease. However, the prognosis of patients with lupus nephritis is continually improving with 10-year survival rates now greater than 75%. This improvement reflects earlier diagnosis due to more sensitive and specific diagnostic tests, better clinical appreciation of the natural history, and improved treatment of SLE and its manifestations. This review of the treatment of lupus nephritis has graded the level of evidence of specific treatment using the guidelines of the US Preventive Service Task Force. Although many new treatments have been advocated, the best evidence for treating proliferative lupus nephritis relies on a strategy combining specific treatment of the SLE as well as generalised treatment of the associated comorbidities. This strategy involves a combination of corticosteroids and cytotoxic agents plus or minus the adjunctive use of antimalarials, coordinated aggressive management of hypertension, proteinuria, infections, dyslipidaemia, thrombotic coagulopathy and potential renal replacement therapies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12534449
Reduction of platelet activity induced by statins has been described as a positive effect exerted by such molecules on vascular thrombotic events. However, the relations among cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction, the timing of the antiplatelet effect, the involved mechanisms and the doses of each statin able to reduce platelet function are not actually well known. The aim of our study was to evaluate the impact of simvastatin (20 mg day-1), atorvastatin (10 mg day-1), fluvastatin (40 mg day-1) and pravastatin (40 mg day-1) on platelet function in hypercholesterolaemic subjects with relation to (LDL-C), oxidized-LDL (ox-LDL) and antiport mechanism modifications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12534645
To examine in vivo the effect of ketoconazole on the pharmacokinetics of rosuvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12535740
The aim of the present study was to investigate plasma levels of asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an important endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, in populations at high risk for atherosclerosis as compared to healthy controls, and furthermore to evaluate the effect of cholesterol lowering therapy in individuals with hypercholesterolemia. The present study consisted of 32 men with untreated hypercholesterolemia (HC group), 38 individuals with well-controlled insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (DM group) and 20 healthy individuals (controls). The HC subjects were randomly allocated into a double blinded, placebo-controlled cross-over designed study with 8 weeks treatment with pravastatin (40 mg/day) or matching placebo. ADMA levels were statistically significantly higher in DM and HC individuals as compared to controls (P<0.001 for both), and the L-arginine/ADMA ratios were significantly lower in both groups (P<0.001 and P<0.005, respectively). Significant reductions in total cholesterol (TC) and LDL-C levels on pravastatin were obtained (P<0.001 for both), whereas no changes were observed in the levels of ADMA or the L-arginine/ADMA ratios. Statistically significant correlations between ADMA and TC and LDL-C were found (r=0.41, P<0.001 for both). In conclusion, significantly elevated ADMA levels and reduced L-arginine/ADMA ratios were found in individuals with diabetes type-1 as well as in hypercholesterolemia. Treatment with pravastatin 40 mg/day for 8 weeks had no effect on the levels of ADMA in hypercholesterolemic men.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12535744
Delayed chylomicron clearance is a characteristic of patients with coronary artery disease. In vivo study of the clearance of labeled chylomicron-like emulsions constitutes a valid model system for evaluation of chylomicron catabolism. The effects of atorvastatin at low (10 mg) and high (40 mg) dose upon the intravascular metabolism and plasma kinetics of chylomicron-like emulsions were evaluated in fasting hyperlipidemic subjects (n=45). Subjects were randomized to a 6-week treatment period with placebo (n=15), low dose or high dose atorvastatin (10 mg/day, n=17 and 40 mg/day, n=13). The chylomicron-like emulsion, double-labeled with 14C-Cholesteryl oleate (14C-CE) and 3H-triolein (3H-TG), was injected in a bolus after a 12-h fast, and blood samples were collected up to 60 min. Plasma decay curves were determined for labeled emulsion CE and TG and residence times (RT) calculated by the occupancy principle. The 14C-CE RT was decreased by 50% after low dose atorvastatin and by 73% after atorvastatin at high dose in comparison to placebo (P<0.05). The 3H-TG RT was significantly reduced (-55%) after high dose atorvastatin, but in contrast was not significantly reduced after placebo or low dose statin. By compartmental analysis, both doses of atorvastatin led to marked elevation in the slow removal component of emulsion remnant particles (10 mg/day=107%; 40 mg/day=195%, P=0.01). Equally, the rapid removal component was increased (+99%) at high dose (P=0.015). Recirculation of 3H-fatty acids was significantly reduced at both statin doses (43 and 83%, respectively) in comparison to placebo (P=0.01). In conclusion, atorvastatin treatment accelerates the plasma clearance of chylomicron-like emulsions and reduces recirculation of fatty acids in subjects with atherogenic hyperlipidemia. Such effect might implicate in reduction of cardiovascular risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12535759
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12535822
In the present study, we investigated the effects of statins on serum levels of soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12537169
Echinacea is the name of a genus of native North American plants, commonly known as the purple coneflower. The most widely used herbal product in the United States is a liquid extract made from the root of Echinacea purpurea. Because the active component of the plant has not been identified, commercial echinacea products are not typically standardized to any particular component. The research literature on echinacea is difficult to evaluate because of the heterogeneity of the products used in various studies. The herb has been recommended as a prophylactic treatment for upper respiratory infection and is widely used for this indication. However, based on the current literature, it appears that prophylactic echinacea does not have a significant impact on the frequency, severity, or duration of upper respiratory infection. The data regarding treatment of upper respiratory infection appear to support a modest positive effect. No significant herb-drug interactions with echinacea have been reported; adverse effects reported generally have been uncommon and minor, including abdominal upset, nausea, and dizziness.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12538418
Although previous work has suggested that anemia is associated with an increased mortality in selected patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), little is known about the prevalence and predictors of anemia, or whether anemia is an independent prognostic factor in unselected, community-based patients with CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12538423
Elevated levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) are associated with an increased risk of coronary events, but whether inflammation is associated with inducible ischemia in patients with stable coronary disease is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12538425
Seropositivity to cytomegalovirus (CMV) and elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) may jointly predict increased mortality rates in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Therapy with statins reduces lipid levels but may also have other beneficial (eg, antiinflammatory) effects. This study prospectively evaluated the effect of statins on CMV-and CRP-associated death among patients with significant, angiographically defined CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12538446
3-Hydroxy-3-methylgutaryl CoA reductase inhibitors, commonly referred to as the statins, have proven therapeutic and preventative effects in cardiovascular diseases. Recently, there are emerging interests in their use as anticancer agents based on preclinical evidence of their antiproliferative, proapoptotic, anti-invasive, and radiosensitizing properties. Inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylgutaryl CoA reductase by the statins interferes with the rate-limiting step of the mevalonate pathway, leading to reduced levels of mevalonate and its downstream products, many of which play important roles in critical cellular functions such as membrane integrity, cell signaling, protein synthesis, and cell cycle progression. Perturbations of these processes in neoplastic cells by the statins may therefore result in control of tumor initiation, growth, and metastasis. The statins have demonstrated growth inhibitory activity in cancer cell lines and preclinical tumor models in animals. Phase I trials of statins in humans have demonstrated myotoxicity as their main dose-limiting toxicity, and Phase II trials in various tumor types are ongoing to evaluate their efficacy. Potential future directions in the development of the statins as anticancer agents include combinations with chemotherapeutic or other molecular-targeted agents, combinations with radiotherapy, maintenance therapy in minimal disease status, and as chemopreventive therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12539808
Patients with elevated levels of serum triglycerides (TG) often have other associated lipid abnormalities (e.g., low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [HDL-C]) and are at increased risk of developing coronary heart disease. Although the therapeutic benefits of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) in hypercholesterolemic patients have been well established, less is known about the effects of statins in patient populations with hypertriglyceridemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12539990
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients more than 65 years old. Within this population, elevated cholesterol levels are prevalent and associated with increased risk of CHD. Despite increasing emphasis on lipid-lowering treatment in the elderly population, questions remain regarding secondary and primary prevention of CHD. According to current clinical trial evidence, lipid-lowering therapy, specifically with HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitors, can reduce CHD morbidity and mortality without increased adverse effects in the elderly population. Lipid-lowering treatment should be considered for patients aged 65 to 75 years with a history of CHD or who are at moderate to high risk for CHD. Estrogen replacement therapy (ERT), which has also been shown to lower cholesterol levels, raises special considerations for postmenopausal women. However, recent findings suggest that postmenopausal women with a history of CHD should not be given estrogen solely for secondary prevention of CHD events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12540794
There is no standard treatment for patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Survival benefits derived from medical interventions are controversial. The aim of this systematic review was to assess the evidence of the impact of medical treatments on survival. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that were published as full papers assessing survival for primary treatments of HCC were included. MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library, CANCERLIT, and a manual search from 1978 to May 2002 were used. The primary end point was survival, and the secondary end point was response to treatment. Estimates of effect were calculated according to the random effects model. Sensitivity analysis included methodological quality. We identified 61 randomized trials, but only 14 met the criteria to perform a meta-analysis assessing arterial embolization (7 trials, 545 patients) or tamoxifen (7 trials, 898 patients). Arterial embolization improved 2-year survival compared with control (odds ratio [OR], 0.53; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.32-0.89; P =.017). Sensitivity analysis showed a significant benefit of chemoembolization with cisplatin or doxorubicin (OR, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.20-0.88) but none with embolization alone (OR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.29-1.20). Overall, treatment induced objective responses in 35% of patients (range, 16%-61%). Tamoxifen showed no antitumoral effect and no survival benefits (OR, 0.64; 95% CI, 0.36-1.13; P =.13), and only low-quality scale trials suggested 1-year improvement in survival. In conclusion, chemoembolization improves survival of patients with unresectable HCC and may become the standard treatment. Treatment with tamoxifen does not modify the survival of patients with advanced disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12542719
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12543298
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12544413
Survival in HIV-infected children has greatly improved with the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy. Children are more vulnerable than adults to metabolic side effects of therapy because of its potential impact on growth and the children's likely greater cumulative exposure. This review summarizes the epidemiology and management of lipodystrophy, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, hyperlactatemia, osteopenia and growth failure in HIV-infected children.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12545342
Thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) is a glycoprotein, linking coagulation and fibrinolysis. Recently, attention has been drawn to the beneficial effects of statins on haemostasis in kidney patients prone to dyslipidaemia and with a high risk of cardiovascular death. The purpose of this study was to assess whether fluvastatin affects TAFI concentration in renal transplant recipients. We evaluated thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) complexes, prothrombin fragments 1+2, thrombomodulin, plasmin-antiplasmin (PAP) complexes, TAFI, P-selectin, and lipoprotein (a), 1, 2, and 3 months before and after fluvastatin treatment and in normolipaemic kidney transplant recipients and healthy volunteers. Cholesterol and LDL fell significantly as soon as 1 month after treatment had begun and remained lowered during the therapy. TAFI and prothrombin fragments 1+2 decreased significantly after 3 months of fluvastatin administration, whereas P-selectin decreased significantly after 2 months and remained significantly lower after 3 months of this therapy. We can conclude that fluvastatin is an effective hypolipaemic agent that favourably affects haemostasis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12546641
Studies in animals and humans indicate a pivotal role for adhesion molecules (AMs) in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Whereas an association between hypercholesterolaemia and AM expression has been suggested, it is unclear whether lowering cholesterol decreases AM expression and release. We compared the effects of a 3-month treatment with standard doses of three different statins (atorvastatin, simvastatin and pravastatin) on plasma levels of circulating AM (cAM) in 75 hypercholesterolaemic patients in a randomized clinical trial. Plasma levels of circulating (c)E-selectin, circulating intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (cICAM-1) and circulating vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (cVCAM-1) were measured before and after 3 months of therapy. None of the statins lowered plasma cAM levels and pooled analyses of all patients showed a 1.7% [95% confidence interval (CI), -1.4-4.9%] increase in cE-selectin, a 2.1% (95% CI, -0.2-4.4%) increase in cICAM-1, and a 2.7% (95% CI, -0.6-6.1%) increase in cVCAM-1 levels. cAM levels did not decrease, even in patients with a >50% decrease ( n =19) in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. This study provides strong evidence that 3 months of therapy with three different statins does not decrease cAM levels, despite normalization of cholesterol levels, and a minor decrease in C-reactive protein levels in patients with moderate hypercholesterolaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12546864
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12547874
Hepatic lipase (HL) is involved in the metabolism of several lipoproteins and may contribute to the atherogenic lipid profile in type 2 diabetes. Little is known about the effect of cholesterol synthesis inhibitors on HL activity in relation to sex and the hepatic lipase gene, the LIPC promoter variant in type 2 diabetes. Therefore, we studied the effect of atorvastatin 10 mg (A10) and 80 mg (A80) on HL activity in 198 patients with type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12548082
Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) and monomethylarginine (LMMA) are endogenous inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase. A high level of ADMA in plasma has shown to be a significant risk factor for acute coronary syndromes and elevated plasma ADMA levels are prevalent in patients with hypercholesterolemia. It was therefore hypothesized that lowering plasma cholesterol levels with statin treatment would also lower ADMA concentrations. This double-blind study addressed the effect of high-dose statin treatment on plasma levels of ADMA and LMMA. Forty-eight subjects with mild hypercholesterolemia were randomly assigned to receive simvastatin 80 mg/d, atorvastatin 40 mg/d, or placebo for 8 weeks. Both statins decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol effectively (simvastatin 54% and atorvastatin 49%). However, concentrations of arginine derivatives remained unchanged during statin treatment and did not correlate with cholesterol levels. This study indicates that statin treatment has no clear influence on plasma ADMA or LMMA concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12549983
Inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of coronary heart disease and elevated serum levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) are independently associated with increased coronary risk. This study assessed whether there were differences in the effects on CRP and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels among patients treated with three common statins. In a prospective, observational study, 80 dyslipidemic adults without evidence of cardiovascular disease were treated with 10 mg atorvastatin (A), 20 mg simvastatin (S), or 40 mg pravastatin (P) daily. CRP and lipid profiles were assayed before and after 12 weeks of therapy; in 21 patients, CRP levels were also measured after 1 and 4 weeks. The three treatment groups experienced comparable reductions in CRP (A: 33%, S: 42%, and P: 30%) and statistically insignificant changes in HDL cholesterol levels. CRP began to decrease after 1 week of treatment, and decreased further at 4 and 12 weeks of therapy. The change in the log-transformed CRP concentration correlated with the change in the log-transformed LDL cholesterol concentration. Subjects had similar baseline CRP levels, lipid profiles, and coronary risk factors. The authors conclude that at doses achieving similar reductions in LDL cholesterol, the three statins were associated with comparable decreases in CRP without significant changes in HDL cholesterol levels. The correlation between the reductions in CRP and LDL cholesterol differs from the findings of other published studies, and should prompt further investigation of the mechanism by which statins reduce CRP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12549990
Because of their excellent tolerability and their positive impact on lipid parameters, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) have become the drugs of first choice for many patients with dyslipidemia. Rosuvastatin is an investigational statin in the U.S. with a number of favorable characteristics, which include low lipophilicity, high hepatocyte selectivity, minimal metabolism, and a low propensity for cytochrome P450 drug interactions. Rosuvastatin has been studied at doses ranging from 1 to 80 mg. In comparative clinical trials, rosuvastatin given at 5 to 10 mg/day reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol to a significantly greater extent than atorvastatin 10 mg/day, pravastatin 20 mg/day, and simvastatin 20 mg/day. In addition, rosuvastatin exhibited beneficial effects on other lipid parameters such as high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides. Rosuvastatin's safety profile was demonstrated to be similar to those of other statins. Given its favorable pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics, rosuvastatin is likely to become a valuable addition to the statin drug class. The author reviews the pharmacologic and pharmacokinetic properties of this new statin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12551853
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12551863
There is an ongoing debate as to whether the gastrointestinal safety of COX-2 inhibition compared with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may come at the cost of increased cardiovascular events. In view of the large number of patients at cardiovascular risk requiring chronic analgesic therapy with COX-2 inhibitors for arthritic and other inflammatory conditions, the effects of selective COX-2 inhibition on clinically useful surrogates for cardiovascular disease, particularly endothelial function, need to be determined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12551866
Endothelial dysfunction is an important feature of atherosclerosis. Inhibition of the HMG-CoA pathway and of calcium channels improves endothelial function experimentally and in the forearm circulation. Thus, we investigated the effects of a statin and/or a calcium antagonist on coronary endothelial function in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12551869
Moderate alcohol intake has been associated with lower cardiovascular mortality. However, data evaluating the relationship between C-reactive protein (CRP), a predictor of cardiovascular risk, and alcohol consumption are sparse.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12553491
Acute myocardial infarction is the leading cause of death in the industrialized world and the paramount goal is establishing early, complete, and sustained reperfusion at the myocardial tissue level. For hospitals without the capacity to perform emergent percutaneous coronary intervention, fibrinolytic therapy plays a critical role although it is limited by a 67% success rate. Despite promising pilot studies, reduced-dose fibrinolytic therapy with glycoprotein IIb/IIIa therapy (GUSTO-V) and full-dose fibrinolytic therapy with enoxaparin (ASSENT-3) or bivalirudin (HERO-2) provide only marginally improved clinical outcomes. Adjunctive in-hospital and secondary preventive measures should include an aspirin, a beta-blocker, an ACE inhibitor, and a statin, based on the Heart Protection Study, unless contraindicated. Patients should be risk stratified, participate in a cardiac rehabilitation program, cease smoking tobacco, and have an intracardiac defibrillator (ICD) implanted if their LV systolic function is < or = 30% at one month based on the MADIT-2 trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12553742
Abstract: The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) guidelines prepared by the Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) provide clinicians with recommendations for the clinical management of abnormal blood cholesterol to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. The recently updated NCEP guidelines have included a number of key amendments such as the recognition of low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, while maintaining the focus of treatment on lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. Several agents can be used to modify the lipid profile in-line with the NCEP ATP-III recommendations, but hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) remain the most effective and best-tolerated drugs for lowering LDL-C. The optimal time to initiate drug therapy had been in question, although recent studies suggest in-hospital initiation following admission with cardiovascular disease reduces the risk of recurrent events and improves long-term patient compliance. Inpatient physicians and nurses therefore play a pivotal role in influencing not only short-term management needs, but also the long-term recovery of their patients. This role should not be underestimated, as recent surveys have highlighted a significant problem of undertreatment in patients with documented atherosclerosis with regards to lipid-lowering and other cardioprotective therapy. Although reversing patient undertreatment will require clinicians to address a variety of issues, systematic in-hospital initiation of currently available lipid-lowering therapies in patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease is likely to have major benefits, reducing the occurrence of cardiovascular events and saving lives. Several statins, cholesterol absorption inhibitors, novel metabolic inhibitors, and combinations of agents are currently in clinical development and it is hoped that these will also assist clinicians in the important task of getting patients to recommended LDL-C and HDL-C levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12556541
Cardiovascular morbidity is a major burden in patients with type 2 diabetes. In the Steno-2 Study, we compared the effect of a targeted, intensified, multifactorial intervention with that of conventional treatment on modifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12556656
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12556657
In a quantitative overview of published trials, we investigated whether pharmacologic properties of antihypertensive drugs, as opposed to reduction in blood pressure, explain cardiovascular outcomes in hypertensive or high-risk patients. We used meta-regression to investigate the association between the odds ratios of outcome (experimental vs. reference treatment) and the corresponding blood pressure differences between study groups. Thus, we correlated odds ratios with between-group differences in systolic pressure. We then compared odds ratios of benefit observed in recent trials with those predicted by meta-regression on the basis of the differences in systolic pressure between randomized groups. Among nine actively-controlled trials in hypertension, significant differences in systolic pressure (follow-up minus baseline) between randomized groups (experimental minus reference) were observed in the ALLHAT, CAPPP, MIDAS, and NORDIL trials. Furthermore, the differences in achieved systolic and/or diastolic pressure between study groups were also significant in the hypertension trials and studies in high-risk patients, which involved untreated control patients. The differences between the observed odds ratios and those predicted by meta-regression did not reach statistical significance except for NORDIL and the single-drug therapy subgroup of the PROGRESS trial. In NORDIL, the risk of stroke was lower on diltiazem than on the older drug classes despite a 3.1 mm Hg higher systolic pressure on the calcium channel blocker. In PROGRESS, perindopril alone reduced blood pressure by 5/3 mm Hg, but did not affect the incidence of all cardiovascular events or the recurrence of stroke. In conclusion, the finding that in the reviewed trials blood pressure reduction largely accounted for outcome emphasizes the desirability of tight blood pressure control. The hypothesis that blood pressure-lowering medications might influence cardiovascular prognosis over and beyond their antihypertensive effect remains to a large extent unproved.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12558496
Atherosclerosis is characterized by a low-grade systemic inflammatory response and endothelial dysfunction. The aim of the present study was to investigate a possible relationship between systemic markers of inflammation, serum markers of endothelial activation and endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in a group of high-risk patients, and to evaluate the effects of intervention with high doses of simvastatin on these parameters. In patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia, without atherosclerotic events, flow-mediated vasodilatation (FMD) of the brachial artery was measured after a wash-out period for lipid-lowering drugs (baseline) and after 6 weeks of treatment with simvastatin 80 mg daily. Levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), soluble intercellular cell-adhesion molecule (s-ICAM) and soluble E-selectin (s-E-selectin) were determined at baseline and again after 6 weeks and 12 months of therapy. A total of 35 subjects participated in the study (mean age 42 years; 60% male). When divided into tertiles according to FMD (<3.9%, 3.9-9.0% and >9.0%), no differences in levels of CRP, s-ICAM-1 and/or s-E-selectin were detected between the groups. Moreover, no changes in FMD, levels of CRP or levels of s-ICAM-1 and/or s-E-selectin were found during treatment with simvastatin. We conclude that endothelial function, as reflected by FMD, does not seem to be related to markers of inflammation in familial hypercholesterolaemia subjects at high risk of, but without clinically overt signs of, atherosclerosis. Moreover, aggressive lipid-lowering therapy with simvastatin does not result in improved endothelial function or in a reduction of markers of inflammation in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12559221
This article continues a series of reports on research developments of particular interest to those involved in the management of patients with heart failure. Summaries of the following trials, reported at the 75th Scientific Sessions of the American Heart Association held in Chicago, Illinois between 17th and 20th November 2002 are included: PROSPER; DIAL; home care monitoring trials; immune modulation therapy; COMPANION; and anaemia in heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12562305
The incidence of invasive mould infections is increasing and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Among the most prevalent of these infections are those caused by Aspergillus and Fusarium species. Invasive disease caused by moulds frequently presents as a pulmonary infection, but haematogenous infection can occur. Some moulds cause cutaneous disease through either direct inoculation of the skin or secondary spread to the skin after dissemination from another body site. Early diagnosis can often be difficult and, unfortunately, diagnosis occurs late in the course of illness in many cases. Treatment options have historically been limited by the need for intravenous administration (amphotericin B), significant toxicities (amphotericin B), lack of reliable in vitro activity (e.g., amphotericin B in Fusarium and Scedosporium apiospermum infections) and relative lack of clinical experience with newer agents. The recent approval of voriconazole (Vfend, Pfizer) introduces a treatment option that demonstrates both in vitro and in vivo activity against a variety of moulds. With the recent development of the new echinocandin class of antifungal agents and newer broad-spectrum azole antifungal agents with in vitro mould activity, there is a renewed emphasis on fungal treatment strategies. Antimould therapy presents challenges in adverse effect avoidance and management, drug interactions and pharmacoeconomic considerations. Furthermore, combination therapy is being explored with these various new antifungal agents. The administration of an optimal fungicidal therapy early in the course of the illness and control of the underlying disease are vital to prevent complications and mortality from these tenacious mycoses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12562722
To determine the effect of omeprazole on peak serum concentrations (C(max)) of itraconazole oral solution (IOS), we carried out a randomized, open-label, prospective, crossover study. Fifteen healthy, non-pregnant adults received a single dose of IOS 400 mg on two occasions, at least 7 days apart, with omeprazole 40 mg nightly for 7 days before either IOS dose 1 or 2. C(max), time to C(max) (T(max)) and AUC(0-8) were determined for itraconazole and its active metabolite, hydroxyitraconazole, for each dose and compared. Omeprazole did not significantly affect the C(max), T(max) or AUC(0-8) of itraconazole or hydroxyitraconazole when administered as IOS.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12563563
Restenosis is a major complication leading to the failure of vascular procedures, including surgery, angioplasty and stenting. Major efforts including over 100 clinical trials have been made to overcome this complication, with little success to date. Issues relating to trial rationale, design, measurement and biology are addressed in this review.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12563570
HYPOTHESIS/INTRODUCTION: The risks and benefits of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) after cardiac events are unknown. We sought to determine the independent effect of ACE inhibitors (ACE-I) on long-term mortality in ESRD patients after cardiac events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12564455
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12565097
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12567159
Comorbid schizophrenia and dementia is a common clinical phenomenon; however, management of the coexisting illnesses remains incomplete. Donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be beneficial for the management of symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, a disease in which cholinergic pathways in the cerebral cortex and basal forebrain are well known to be compromised. Furthermore, impaired cognition in elderly schizophrenic patients has been observed to be more than two thirds; however, there are no published controlled studies reporting the use of cholinesterase inhibitors in the management of schizophrenia in patients with associated dementia. In this study, six patients with chronic schizophrenia and comorbid dementia were administered donepezil, 5 mg, in single-blind fashion as augmentation to their standard antipsychotic medication for a 4-week period. Patients were evaluated with the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE); Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale, Cognitive subscale; Positive and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS); and the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scales. A significant improvement was noted in MMSE scores (P < 0.01) and for CGI scores (P < 0.01). In addition, three patients demonstrated improvement on the PANSS. Donepezil appears to be an effective treatment for the management of symptoms of dementia accompanying patients with comorbid schizophrenia and dementia. Since cholinergic dysfunction may be present in some patients with schizophrenia, the authors' findings further demonstrate the possibility that this disorder may be managed with cholinergic medications as augmenting agents, at least in this specific subpopulation of patients with comorbid dementia. To confirm the findings of this preliminary trial, further investigation is mandated with a larger sample of subjects in the context of a double-blind medication trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12568290
Cardiovascular disease is still the leading cause of death in Western countries. Epidemiological studies have shown that hypercholesterolemia is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. Clinical trials of lipid lowering therapy with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG Co-A) reductase inhibitor have been shown to decrease coronary events and mortality. Flavonoids are polyphenolic natural antioxidants occurring in natural products such as traditional Chinese herbs, fruits and beverages such as tea and wine. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of crude extracts from traditional Chinese herbs on HMG Co-A reductase. The methods for analysis of specific inhibitors of mevalonate biosynthesis have been well-established by using Vero cells, a cell line obtained from kidneys of African green monkeys. Crude extracts from different traditional Chinese herbs were dissolved in 1% Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and incubated with Vero cells with or without the addition of 1 mM mevalonate or 5 mM sodium acetate for 24 hours in order to observe cell growth. Pravastatin, a specific HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor, was used as a positive control which inhibits Vero cells growth effectively and cell growth inhibition was reversible after 1 mM mevalonate. Among 100 traditional Chinese herbs used for the study, only two herbs: Curcuma zedoaria Roscoe and Poncirus trifoliata Raf. showed significant growth inhibition of Vero cells. This study shows that some crude extracts isolated from traditional medicinal herbs were effective HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors which might be developed into new hypocholesterolemic agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12569241
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12570713
Type 2 diabetes is a widespread disease where effective pharmacologic therapies can have a profound beneficial public health impact. Increased hepatic glucose production (HGP) is observed in diabetics and its moderation by currently available agents provides therapeutic benefits. This review describes the challenges associated with the discovery of small molecules that inhibit HGP. Gluconeogenesis, glycogenolysis, liver architecture, and hepatocyte composition are described to provide background information on hepatic function. Current methods of target validation for drug discovery, HGP measurement, diabetes animal models, as well as current drug therapies are covered. In the accompanying review article the new drug targets being probed to produce the next generation of therapies are described. Significant pharmaceutical and academic efforts to pharmacologically inhibit HGP has the opportunity to provide new therapeutics for type 2 diabetics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12570936
We investigated the association between hyperglycemia and the no-reflow phenomenon in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12570960
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12571693
Although quality indicators for the care of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients have been described for other countries, there are none specifically designed for the Canadian health care system. The authors' goal was to develop a set of Canadian quality indicators for AMI care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12572539
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12572627
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12572632
The authors mailed a survey designed to determine the use of osteopathic manipulative treatment (OMT) to the 2,318 active osteopathic physicians registered with the Ohio Osteopathic Association; 871 responses were received, for a response rate of 38%. Approximately 75% of the respondents had not or had rarely used OMT: 44% of these respondents did not use any OMT and 31% reported treating fewer than 10 patients with OMT during the week before the survey. Approximately 25% of the surveyed osteopathic physicians treated more than 10 patients with OMT, and about 6% of these treated more than 30 patients with OMT. Respondents represented 40 specialty disciplines. All of the osteopathic physicians in 17 specialties reported no OMT use, osteopathic physicians in 9 specialties reported using OMT for fewer than 10 patients during the previous week, and osteopathic physicians in 9 specialties reported using OMT for more than 10 patients during the previous week. Of the somatic dysfunctions listed in the survey, low back disorders were treated with OMT most often. Few osteopathic specialists used OMT for patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The data suggest that a great opportunity exists to increase the use of OMT by osteopathic physicians, especially those who are specialists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12573191
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12573192
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12573193
The significant age-adjusted decline in cardiovascular mortality that has occurred over the past three decades is multifactorial. However, the advent of statin therapy has markedly facilitated the optimization of dyslipidemia in patients at risk for coronary events. Statin therapy has proven to be effective in reducing morbidity and mortality in large-scale primary and secondary prevention trials. As with all therapies, the administration of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG Co A) reductase inhibitors is not without clinical risks. Myopathy, albeit uncommon, was one of the earliest clinical problems associated with statin therapy. Recent data from the large-scale statin mega-trials have clarified the quantitative clinical risk-benefit relationship of reductase inhibitors relative to the induction of muscle toxicity. Histopathologic studies have clarified the potential role of statins in the syndrome of myalgias and normal creatine kinase levels. However, the precise mechanism of statin-associated muscle toxicity remains unclear and is potentially related to genetically mediated muscle enzyme defects, drug interactions, intracellular depletion of metabolic intermediates, and intrinsic properties of the statins per se.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12574532
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12574533
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12574539
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12576762
The aim of this study is to investigate the role of high doses of atorvastatin (80 mg per day) in the treatment of endothelium dysfunction of the coronary arteries.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12578509
Several interventions have been shown to be of benefit to patients with stroke (hereafter referred to as stroke patients) in clinical trials, but the net effect of these interventions in the general stroke population has not been established. The purpose of this study was to evaluate temporal trends in the characteristics, treatments, and outcomes of acute stroke patients in the province of Ontario.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12578514
The losses in productivity due to cardiovascular disease (CVD) are substantial but rarely considered in health economic analyses. We compared the cost-effectiveness of lipid level modification in the primary prevention of CVD with and without these indirect costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12578881
We determined whether statin use (versus nonuse) is associated with superior lower-extremity functioning independently of cholesterol levels and other confounders in patients with and without peripheral arterial disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12580184
In recent clinical trials, chronic treatment of patients with PD with pramipexole or ropinirole was associated with a slower decline of imaged striatal dopaminergic signal, compared to levodopa monotherapy. Although this could reflect slowed progression of PD, equally plausible is a pharmacologic effect on proteins that interact with the imaging radioligands. To date, there is no compelling evidence favoring dopamine agonists over levodopa; either is an appropriate choice for initial treatment of PD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12580993
This study investigated the effects of St John's wort extract (SJW) on the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A (CSA).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12580994
As statin therapy has been demonstrated to augment endothelial function in sedentary hypercholesterolaemia (HC), we aimed to investigate the effects of atorvastatin therapy on endothelial function in physically active, HC men.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12581326
The objective of this prospective study was to determine the prevalence of hyperlipidemia in our pediatric renal transplant patients and to treat those with persistently elevated cholesterol and/or low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels. All patients with a functioning renal allograft for greater than 6 months were studied (n = 18). Patients with cholesterol and/or LDL levels greater than the 95th percentile (n = 9) were commenced on an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, Atorvastatin and monitoring was performed for efficacy and adverse effects. Total serum cholesterol was elevated in 11 of 18 (61%) and triglyceride (TG) was elevated in 12 of 18 (67%) patients. Atorvastatin treatment was effective with a mean percentage reduction of total cholesterol of 41 +/- 10% (p < 0.01 vs. before treatment), LDL 57 +/- 7% (p < 0.01 vs. before treatment) and TG 44 +/-25% (p = 0.05 vs. before treatment). No adverse effects on allograft function or cyclosporin levels were experienced. Hyperlipidemia is a common problem and Atorvastatin is a safe and effective treatment in pediatric renal transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12581545
The guidelines for management of dyslipidemia released by the US National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) have been questioned for their relevance in the South Asian Indian populations because these populations are reported to have significantly different lipoprotein parameters and atherogenic risk factors than Western populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12582448
Imatinib mesylate (STI571, Gleevec, Glivec, a selective inhibitor of the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase causative of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), represents the paradigm of how a better understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms of a neoplastic disease can lead to the development of a targeted molecular therapy. Phase II clinical trials have shown marked therapeutic activity of imatinib in all evolutive phases of CML, but notably in the chronic phase, where it induces complete hematological responses in almost 100% of patients resistant or intolerant to interferon, with a major cytogenetic response rate of 60%, including 41% complete cytogenetic responses. The preliminary results of an ongoing phase III multicenter randomized study comparing imatinib with interferon plus cytarabine as first-line treatment for CML favor imatinib in terms of efficacy and safety. If confirmed with longer follow-up,these results would establish imatinib as the choice therapy for the majority of CML patients, with allogeneic transplantation being restricted as initial therapy only to younger patients with a family donor. Longer follow-up will answer some questions, such as those on long-term safety, durability of the responses, whether these will translate into a survival prolongation and the possibility of molecular responses. In addition, further information on the mechanisms involved in the primary and acquired resistance to imatinib is needed. Besides the Bcr-Abl protein, the drug is also active against other tyrosine kinases, such as Abl, the stem-cell factor receptor (c-kit) and the platelet-derived growth factor receptor, whose inhibition might have potential implications for the treatment of several malignancies. In this sense, it must be pointed out that imatinib has shown a remarkable activity in gastrointestinal stromal tumors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12582450
Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of progressive decline of cognitive function in aged humans and is characterized by the presence of numerous senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles accompanied by neuronal loss. The only treatment currently available for the disease is pharmacotherapy with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, a palliative strategy aimed at the temporary improvement of cognitive function. Other strategies with disease-modifying potential may include the use of antiinflammatory drugs, estrogen replacement therapy and antioxidants. Recent progress in understanding the molecular and cellular pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease has suggested possible pharmacological interventions that could modify the development and progress of the disease (disease-modifying therapy), such as treatment with secretase inhibitors, transition metal chelators, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and amyloid-b immunization. Inhibitors of tau hyperphosphorylation may also modulate the development and progress of the disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12584671
Among individuals with a history of myocardial infarction (MI), higher levels of blood pressure (BP) are associated with increased long-term risks of death from coronary heart disease. Treatment with a BP-lowering regimen, based on omapatrilat may result in greater clinical benefits than treatment with a regimen based on a regular angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor because of more favourable effects on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12586255
This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study assessed the efficacy and safety of ezetimibe administered with lovastatin in primary hypercholesterolemia. After dietary stabilization, a 2- to 12-week washout period, and a 4-week single-blind placebo lead-in period, 548 patients with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol > or =145 mg/dl (3.75 mmol/L) and < or =250 mg/dl (6.47 mmol/L) and triglycerides < or =350 mg/dl (3.99 mmol/L) were randomized to one of the following, administered daily for 12 weeks: ezetimibe 10 mg; lovastatin 10, 20, or 40 mg; ezetimibe 10 mg plus lovastatin 10, 20, or 40 mg; or placebo. The primary efficacy variable was percentage decrease in direct LDL cholesterol from baseline to end point for pooled ezetimibe plus lovastatin versus pooled lovastatin alone. Ezetimibe plus lovastatin significantly improved concentrations of LDL cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides compared with lovastatin alone (p <0.01). The coadministration of ezetimibe provided an incremental 14% LDL cholesterol decrease, a 5% HDL cholesterol increase, and a 10% decrease in triglycerides compared with pooled lovastatin alone. Ezetimibe plus lovastatin provided mean LDL cholesterol decreases of 33% to 45%, median triglyceride decreases of 19% to 27%, and mean HDL cholesterol increases of 8% to 9%, depending on the statin dose. The coadministration of ezetimibe 10 mg plus the starting dose of lovastatin (10 mg) provided comparable efficacy to high-dose lovastatin (40 mg) across the lipid profile (LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides). Ezetimibe plus lovastatin was well tolerated, with a safety profile similar to both lovastatin alone and placebo. The coadministration of ezetimibe and lovastatin may offer a new treatment option in lipid management of patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12586267
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12588540
Hypertension is an important risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The latest guidelines recommend regular physical exercise as initial step or adjunct in the treatment of hypertension. We investigated the association between physical activity and the degree of hypertension, as well as the relation to indices of endothelial damage/dysfunction and angiogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12588574
To assess the ability of gait speed alone and a three-item lower extremity performance battery to predict 12-month rates of hospitalization, decline in health, and decline in function in primary care settings serving older adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12590226
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12590901
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12591845
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12592082
Lymphomatoid papulosis (LyP) is a clonal T cell proliferation with large cell histology, a chronic course, and an increased risk of lymphoma. Bexarotene (Targretin) is an RXR-selective retinoid (rexinoid) approved for the cutaneous manifestations of cutaneous T cell lymphoma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12593493
Policosanol is a cholesterol-lowering drug with concomitant antiplatelet effects. The present study was undertaken to compare the effects of policosanol and lovastatin on patients with moderately severe intermittent claudication. The study had a 4-week baseline step, followed by a 20-week double blinded, randomized treatment period. Twenty-eight patients who met study entry criteria were randomized to policosanol 10 mg or lovastatin 20 mg tablets once daily. Walking distances in a treadmill (constant speed 3.2 km/hr, slope 10 degrees, temperature 25 degrees C) were assessed before and after 20 weeks of treatment. Both groups were similar at randomization. Compared with baseline, policosanol increased significantly (p < 0.01) the initial claudication distance (ICD) from 160.39 +/- 15.82 m to 211.31 +/- 21.48 m (+33.7%) and the absolute claudication distance (ACD) (p < 0.001) from 236.39 +/- 25.44 m to 288.09 +/- 28.47 m (+24.3%); meanwhile both variables remained unchanged after lovastatin therapy. Changes in ICD and ACD were significantly larger in the policosanol than in the lovastatin group (p < 0.01). Policosanol, but not lovastatin, significantly increased (p < 0.05) the ankle/arm index, although between-group differences were not significant. The frequency of patients reporting improvement on quality of life domains was greater in the policosanol than in the lovastatin group. Policosanol significantly (p < 0.001) lowered total cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) by 17.5% and 31.0%, respectively, and meanwhile increased (p < 0.01) high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) levels by 31.5%. Lovastatin reduced (p < 0.01) TC (18.0%), LDL-C (22.6%), and (p < 0.05) triglycerides (9.8%). In addition, policosanol, but not lovastatin, moderately, but significantly, reduced (p < 0.05) fibrinogen levels, so that final values and percent changes in both groups were different (p < 0.01). Treatments were well tolerated. Only 1 lovastatin patient withdrew from the study because of a nonfatal myocardial infarction. Five lovastatin patients, but none from the policosanol group, experienced 6 adverse events (AE) (p < 0.01). The present results indicate that policosanol, but not lovastatin, is a suitable alternative to manage patients with intermittent claudication because of pleiotropic properties beyond its cholesterol-lowering effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12594645
Voriconazole is a second-generation azole antifungal agent that shows excellent in vitro activity against a wide variety of yeasts and molds. It can be given by either the intravenous or the oral route; the oral formulation has excellent bioavailability. The side effect profile of voriconazole is unique in that non-sight-threatening, transient visual disturbances occur in approximately 30% of patients given the drug. Rash (which can manifest as photosensitivity) and hepatitis also occur. The potential for drug-drug interactions is high and requires that careful attention be given to dosage regimens and monitoring of serum levels and effects of interacting drugs. Voriconazole has been approved for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and refractory infections with Pseudallescheria/Scedosporium and Fusarium species, and it will likely become the drug of choice for treatment of serious infections with those filamentous fungi.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12595055
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12595916
Avasimibe is a novel orally bioavailable ACAT inhibitor, currently under clinical development (phase III trials). It was safe when administered to rats, dogs, and humans. In vitro studies in human macrophages demonstrated that avasimibe reduces foam cell formation not only by enhancing free cholesterol efflux, but also by inhibiting the uptake of modified LDL. The concentration-dependent reduction in cellular cholesteryl ester content in these cells was not accompanied by an increase in intracellular free cholesterol, which is in agreement with a good safety profile for avasimibe. In the liver, avasimibe caused a significant reduction in the secretion of apo B and apo B-containing lipoproteins into plasma. Avasimibe induced cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase and increased bile acid synthesis in cultured rat hepatocytes, and its administration to rats did not produce an increase in lithogenicity index of the bile. The hypolipidemic efficacy of the compound was demonstrated in cholesterol-fed as well as in non-cholesterol-fed animals. In these models, plasma cholesterol levels were reduced, mainly due to the decrease in the non-HDL cholesterol fraction. Clinical data are scarce, but in a study performed in 130 men and women with combined hyperlipidemia and hypoalphalipoproteinemia, avasimibe, 50-500 mg/day, significantly reduced plasma total triglyceride and VLDL-cholesterol. Although total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and HDL-cholesterol were unchanged, it must be stressed that animal data suggest that avasimibe may have direct antiatherosclerotic activity in addition to its cholesterol-lowering effect. Avasimibe treatment can also contribute to increase plaque stability, as it reduces the accumulation of lipids in the arterial wall, inhibits macrophage infiltration into the media and reduces matrix metalloproteinase expression and activity. Moreover, avasimibe and statins have been shown to have synergistic effects, and the combination therapy may not only inhibit atherosclerotic lesion progression but also induce lesion regression, independently of changes in plasma cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12596356
Personalized medicine simply means the prescription of specific therapeutics best suited for an individual based on pharmacogenetic and pharmacogenomic information. The basis of personalized medicine are reviewed. Several technologies are used including single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping. haplotyping, gene expression studies by biochip/microarrays and proteomics. Molecular diagnostics will play an important role in the development of personalized medicine, in which therapy and diagnosis will be integrated. There are several examples of the personalized medical approach, which include genotype-based selection of patients for effective cancer therapy, to spare those who would not respond or would suffer undesirable side effects. Personalized therapy is financially feasible, as it will reduce the costs of drug development by shortening the drug development cycle. The introduction of pharmacogenomics into clinical trials is reducing the chances of failed clinical trials and increasing the prospects of safer and more effective therapies for specific groups of patients. Several advantages, as well as challenges to the development of personalized medicine are examined. Personalized medicine is anticipated to be an acceptable part of medical practice by the year 2010.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12597264
Evidence-based practice has been proposed as a means to improve the quality of care and decrease unwarranted variability in practice, but evaluating clinical trial data as evidence for practice is made more difficult because practice changes rapidly. This article reviews current clinical trial data on the management of patients with acute coronary syndromes, but the same principles can be used when evaluating alternative medicines. Current evidence supports risk stratification, early treatment with glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, and an early invasive strategy in patients who are at intermediate to high risk. In addition, cholesterol-lowering statins should be initiated early in the patient's hospitalization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12598136
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12598874
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12600918
Gap junctions allow the direct exchange of ions and small molecules between cells in contact, thus coordinating physiological processes such as cell growth and differentiation. We have recently demonstrated increased expression of the gap junction protein connexin43 (Cx43) in specific subsets of cells in atherosclerotic lesions. Because the development of atherosclerosis depends critically on paracrine cell-to-cell interactions, we hypothesized that direct intercellular communication via gap junctions may be another factor controlling atherogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12602373
(1) Macrolides are an alternative to beta-lactam agents for treating uncomplicated community-acquired pneumonia, acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, sinusitis and throat infections. The choice of macrolides is based mainly on the risk of interactions, which is lowest with spiramycin. (2) Telithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic derived from erythromycin. It was first marketed in France in 2002, for the above indications. (3) Telithromycin is no more effective than the antibiotics with which it has been compared, namely amoxicillin and clarithromycin in non life-threatening pneumonia; amoxicillin-clavulanate and cefuroxime axetil in acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis and acute sinusitis; and clarithromycin and phenoxymethylpenicillin (penicillin V) in pharyngotonsillitis. (4) In clinical trials, telithromycin was not more effective than comparator antibiotics on infections thought to be due to pneumococcal strains resistant to penicillin and/or erythromycin. Cases of erythromycin cross-resistance have been observed. (5) The adverse effects of telithromycin are the same as those of other macrolides, mainly gastrointestinal disturbances, headache, dizziness, and hepatotoxicity. Telithromycin also carries a risk of torsades de pointes, and seems to cause more visual problems than other macrolides. (6) Telithromycin inhibits cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, so there is a high risk of drug interactions. (7) In practice, spiramycin remains the standard option when a macrolide is indicated for the treatment of common ENT and pulmonary infections.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12602538
Several pieces of evidence support a role of inflammatory processes in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis; it is also known that endothelial dysfunction is the initial lesion of the atherosclerotic process. Among other markers of endothelial dysfunction, some adhesion molecules seem to play an interesting role. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of atorvastatin vs placebo on some indexes of leukocytes adhesion in a group of Type 2 diabetic patients. Twenty-five Type 2 diabetic patients free from microangiopathic complications and with LDL-cholesterol lower than 180 mg/dl were randomized to receive either atorvastatin (T2DA) or placebo (T2Dp) for twelve months. BMI, fasting plasma glucose, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), albumin excretion rate (AER), lipid profile, and serum concentrations of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM1), E-selectin and cadherin-5 were measured at baseline and at the end of the follow-up. At T0 E-selectin was 16 +/- 6 ng/ml in T2DA and 17 +/- 13 in T2Dp; VCAM1 was 413 +/- 112 ng/ml in T2DA and 411 +/- 112 in T2Dp. At T12 VCAM1 and E-selectin did not vary in T2Dp, while a significant reduction was observed in T2DA (VCAM1 275 +/- 104 ng/ml and E-selectin 8 +/- 3 ng/ml; p < 0.001 and p < 0.01, respectively). T2DA also showed a reduction of total and LDL cholesterol and an improved glycemic control respect to T2Dp. Hypolipidemic therapy was the strongest independent predictor of the cytokines variations along the time. These results confirm the role of statins in modulating endothelial function also in Type 2 diabetes, outlining a therapeutic role of these molecules probably independent from the hypolipidemic effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12603176
In vitro, bosentan has been shown to be a mild inducer of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9 and 3A4.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12603188
People with dementia usually experience behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) during the course of their illness. Currently, in Australia, there is a lack of comprehensive planning for managing and preventing BPSD, and the resources required for optimal care are inadequate and unevenly distributed. We propose a seven-tiered model of service delivery based on severity and prevalence of BPSD, ranging from no dementia through tiers of increasingly severe behavioural disturbance to the propensity for extreme violence in a small number of individuals. Each tier is associated with a different model of intervention. People with dementia may move up or down between tiers depending on their condition, their care and the intervention provided. Lower-level interventions may prevent the need for the more intensive interventions needed when disturbance becomes more severe.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12603254
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a condition with a high conversion rate to Alzheimer's disease (AD), which justifies early diagnostic and therapeutic interventions. At the moment, treatment strategies for AD could be extrapolated to interventional strategies in MCI. This article reviews currently available symptomatic treatments with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, putative treatments such as antiglutamatergic drugs, nootropics, antioxidants, anti-inflammatory drugs and still controversial estrogen replacement therapy, and visionary treatments targeting neuropathological substrates of the disease, such as amyloid production and aggregation, phosphorylation of tau, formation of neurofibrillary tangles and apoptosis. Findings from epidemiological studies have expanded our knowledge on risk as well as possible neuroprotective factors and given means to develop preventive strategies with antihyperlipidaemic drugs such as statins. A wide range of suggested treatments and their possible combinations necessitate their efficacy assessment in well-designed randomized clinical trials where the crucial prerequisites are selection of the treatment population and definitions of outcome measures. Prevention and disease-modifying strategies are raising ethical questions because interventions are focused on non-diseased elderly at risk, which means that emphasis should be not only on efficacy but also on long-term safety.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605558
Lipid abnormalities are central among the risk factors for the development of cardiovascular disease and their correction remains a major target for the medical community. Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase (statins) are the most widely prescribed and best tolerated of the currently available lipid-modifying therapies. Newer agents in this class (e.g., rosuvastatin) have proven to be more effective at lowering levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. New formulations of drugs such as nicotinic acid, which improve treatment regimens and reduce unpleasant side effects, may result in improved patient compliance with this therapy. The development of novel drugs such as cholesterol absorption inhibitors (e.g., ezetimibe) and acyl-coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase inhibitors (e.g., avasimibe) will provide clinicians with therapeutic options that exploit different pathways to those currently being utilised. By combining these agents with statins, greater improvements in the lipid profile than those seen to date could be produced. In addition, advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology of dyslipidaemia have enabled other novel therapeutic targets to be identified and studies with experimental drugs underscore the potential of these approaches.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605562
With the continuing development of clinical drug resistance among bacteria and the advent of resistance to the recently released agents quinupristin-dalfopristin and linezolid, the need for new, effective agents to treat multi-drug-resistant Gram-positive infections remains important. This review focuses on agents presently in clinical development for the treatment of serious multidrug-resistant staphylococcal, enterococcal and pneumococcal infections, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, vancomycin-resistant enterococci and penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae. Agents to be discussed that affect the prokaryotic cell wall include the antimethicillin-resistant S. aureus cephalosporins BAL9141 and RWJ-54428, the glycopeptides oritavancin and dalbavancin and the lipopeptide daptomycin. Topoisomerase inhibitors include the fluoroquinolones gemifloxacin, sitafloxacin and garenoxacin. Protein synthesis inhibitors are represented by the ketolides telithromycin and cethromycin, the oxazolidinones and the glycylcycline tigecycline. Although each of these compounds has demonstrated antibacterial activity against antibiotic-resistant pathogens, their final regulatory approval will depend on an acceptable clinical safety profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605563
Having changed the landscape in the treatment of HIV infection, the functional efficacy of current protease inhibitors (PIs) remains limited by their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles. Complex metabolism by the cytochrome P450 system (particularly the 3A4 isoenzyme), action of membrane drug transporter elements (such as P-glycoprotein and multi-drug resistance-associated proteins) and activation of the nuclear receptor steroid xenobiotic receptor may alter exposures and compromise the antiretroviral activity of these drugs. These factors, as well as inadequate adherence, can facilitate the emergence of PI resistance and lead to regimen failure. Coadministration of ritonavir can enhance exposures of a primary PI by inhibiting CYP3A4 metabolism, P-glycoprotein activity and multi-drug resistance protein-1-mediated efflux. Adding ritonavir, however, is not without cost. Dyslipidaemia (possibly increasing the risk of cardiovascular events), gastrointestinal intolerance, multiple drug-to-drug interactions and activation of steroid xenobiotic receptor can all result and must be balanced against the pharmacokinetic improvement rendered by the addition of ritonavir. Understanding the pharmacological origins for the variations in exposures of PIs, both between and within patients, is important for the successful use of these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605567
The therapeutic modulation of the nitric oxide (NO) system has generated considerable interest as a new way for managing many disease processes. In stroke, a useful strategy is to increase NO availability and thereby exploit its beneficial antiplatelet, antiatherosclerotic, haemodynamic and neuroprotective properties. Pharmacologically, this can be achieved by providing NO substrate, using NO donors or by upregulating nitric oxide synthase. Alternatively, one can reduce NO availability by inhibiting NO synthase and thereby limiting its pro-inflammatory and neurotoxic properties. This article reviews developments in NO-related therapeutics for treatment of stroke, with a particular emphasis on compounds that are in the clinical research and development pipeline. Although the routine use of NO therapeutics for the prevention or treatment of stroke cannot currently be recommended, we are evidently at an exciting stage in their pharmacological development. Definitive randomised controlled trials in stroke patients are required as a matter of urgency.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605568
The goal of this article is to update the reader and focus on novel therapies and clinical trials published since our last review [6]. Evidence suggests that drug intervention should target one or all of three biological processes: vascular disease, autoimmunity and tissue fibrosis. Efforts should be made to classify the subtype of scleroderma, to determine the activity of the disease process and the degree of specific organ involvement before specific treatment decisions are made. Cyclophosphamide in fibrosing alveolitis, intravenous prostaglandins and other vasodilators for the vascular disease, endothelin-1 inhibition in pulmonary hypertension and immunosuppressive therapy for early inflammatory disease, all appear to have benefit. Several agents used in vitro and in animal models of fibrosis also show promise including anti-transforming growth factor-beta, the statins and anti-integrins. More experience in well-designed clinical trials is needed to define the role of these agents in treating scleroderma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605572
The Heart Protection Study is the largest trial of statin therapy conducted to date. It provides important new information on the use of statins in women, the elderly, diabetics and people with low baseline cholesterol pretreatment and those with prior occlusive non-coronary vascular disease. In this report, the paper is discussed with the significance of the results outlined in view of existing evidence from previously published trials. In addition, ongoing trials and future directions are explored.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12605757
Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) is thought to be related to the development of coronary disease. We were interested in knowing the degree of FMD in a large sample of coronary patients in relation to the therapy they were given in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12606523
The metabolic syndrome is characterized by insulin resistance and abnormal apolipoprotein AI (apoAI) and apolipoprotein B-100 (apoB) metabolism that may collectively accelerate atherosclerosis. The effects of atorvastatin (40 mg/day) and micronised fenofibrate (200 mg/day) on the kinetics of apoAI and apoB were investigated in a controlled cross-over trial of 11 dyslipidemic men with the metabolic syndrome. ApoAI and apoB kinetics were studied following intravenous d(3)-leucine administration using gas-chromatography mass spectrometry with data analyzed by compartmental modeling. Compared with placebo, atorvastatin significantly decreased (P < 0.001) plasma concentrations of cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL cholesterol, VLDL apoB, intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL) apoB, and LDL apoB. Fenofibrate significantly decreased (P < 0.001) plasma triglyceride and VLDL apoB and elevated HDL(2) cholesterol (P < 0.001), HDL(3) cholesterol (P < 0.01), apoAI (P = 0.01), and apoAII (P < 0.001) concentrations, but it did not significantly alter LDL cholesterol. Atorvastatin significantly increased (P < 0.002) the fractional catabolic rate (FCR) of VLDL apoB, IDL apoB, and LDL apoB but did not affect the production of apoB in any lipoprotein fraction or in the turnover of apoAI. Fenofibrate significantly increased (P < 0.01) the FCR of VLDL, IDL, and LDL apoB but did not affect the production of VLDL apoB. Relative to placebo and atorvastatin, fenofibrate significantly increased the production (P < 0.001) and FCR (P = 0.016) of apoAI. Both agents significantly lowered plasma triglycerides and apoCIII concentrations, but only atorvastatin significantly lowered (P < 0.001) plasma cholesteryl ester transfer protein activity. Neither treatment altered insulin resistance. In conclusion, these differential effects of atorvastatin and fenofibrate on apoAI and apoB kinetics support the use of combination therapy for optimally regulating dyslipoproteinemia in the metabolic syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12606925
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12609587
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12610743
To assess the effect of chronic hepatic impairment on rosuvastatin disposition, pharmacodynamic activity and tolerability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12611741
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12611742
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12612852
Dementias of late life constitute a major public health challenge. Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common form. Epidemiological studies suggest that the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, wine and coffee consumption and regular physical activity may delay onset of AD or reduce rate of progression. Preclinical research in animals and epidemiological studies in humans have shown that estrogen substitution strategies and lipid lowering statins may be beneficial. Thus, despite the lack of prospective studies and, therefore, consensus, different pharmacological strategies for persons at high risk for Alzheimer's disease are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12612871
Coronary artery disease patients with heart failure (CAD+HF) are at high risk for cardiovascular events. We examined the frequency of lipid assessment and prescription of lipid-lowering agents in outpatients with combined CAD+HF compared with patients with CAD alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12612979
Chronic kidney diseases, particularly if presenting with significant proteinuria, are commonly associated with substantial alteration of serum lipid levels. Experimental evidence suggests that lipid abnormalities may contribute to the progression of kidney disease. However, studies in humans on the subject are scarce.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12613230
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12614193
OPTIMAAL (Optimal Trial in Myocardial Infarction with the Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan) is the first major study to compare an angiotensin II Type 1 antagonist losartan (Cozaar trade mark, Merck) with an ACE inhibitor captonpril (Capoten trade mark, Elan) after myocardial infarction in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Patients were assigned to a target dose of losartan 50 mg/day and captopril 50 mg t.i.d., as tolerated. The primary end point was all-cause mortality and there were 499 (18%) and 447 (16%) deaths in the losartan and captopril group, respectively (p = 0.07). However, there were significantly more cardiovascular deaths with losartan (420, 15%) than with captopril (363, 13%; p = 0.03). Losartan was better tolerated than captopril with fewer patients discontinuing medication (17 versus 23% for losartan and captopril, respectively). In conclusion, if tolerated, captopril should remain the preferred treatment for patients after complicated acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12615272
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12615276
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12615850
Telithromycin (HMR 3647) is the first ketolide introduced into clinical practice. Ketolides are semisynthetic derivates of erythromycin A that carry novel biological properties on the erythronolide A ring. This new class of antimicrobials was designed to overcome current resistance mechanisms against erythromycin A within Gram-positive cocci. Ketolides do not induce macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin B (MLS(B)) resistance and are active against erythromycin resistance methylase gene (erm)-carrying Gram-positive cocci. This review summarizes published data on telithromycin and intends to define the challenge that a new antimicrobial brings to medical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12615984
The National Service Framework (NSF) for Coronary Heart Disease requires annual clinical audit of the care of patients with myocardial infarction, with little guidance on how to achieve these standards and monitor practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12618273
The effects of the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor atorvastatin on electrophoretic characteristics of LDL particles were evaluated in 46 patients (28 males and 18 females) with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) aged 20-61 carrying either a negative or a defective LDL receptor gene mutation. Following a 6 week drug-free baseline period, FH heterozygotes were treated with atorvastatin (median dose: 20 mg/day, range 10-80 mg/day)) for 6 months to maintain their plasma LDL-cholesterol concentrations between 4.0 and 5.0 mmol/l. Atorvastatin treatment significantly reduced plasma total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and triglyceride levels and increased plasma HDL-cholesterol. Furthermore, atorvastatin treatment significantly increased LDL peak particle diameter (LDL-PPD) by 0.5% (from 255.0+/-6.2 to 256.4+/-5.5 A, P=0.004) and reduced the absolute concentration of cholesterol among small (<255 A) and large (>260 A) LDL particles by 35% (P<0.001). Changes in LDL-PPD and plasma triglyceride levels were inversely correlated (R=-0.34; P=0.02). Stepwise multiple linear regression analyses showed that 41.6% of the variation in the LDL-PPD response to atorvastatin was attributable to the initial LDL-PPD (14.4%, P=0.003), the apo E polymorphism (12.4%, P=0.02), the nature of the LDL receptor gene mutation (9.6%, P=0.01) and change in triglyceride levels (5.2%, P=0.04). Moreover, the reduction in the cholesterol content of LDL <255 A was directly correlated with the daily dosage of atorvastatin (P=0.05). Results of the present study showed that atorvastatin alters significantly LDL heterogeneity in patients at high risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) such as FH heterozygotes. These results also suggest that genetic and metabolic factors may be important determinants of atorvastatin-induced changes of LDL particle size and distribution among FH heterozygotes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12618561
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12618643
Health plans are increasingly using more open drug formularies that offer differential prescription copayments as an incentive to enrollees to use brands that plans prefer. How much this financial incentive affects use of preferred brands has not been widely reported. The aim of this study was to estimate the effect of tiered copayments on the choice between preferred and nonpreferred brand medications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12620535
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12624557
In the United Kingdom, the current recommendation is that lipid-lowering drugs should be prescribed for primary prevention only to subjects with an absolute coronary risk (AR) greater than 15% in 5 years (i.e., myocardial infarction or angina). However, to achieve greater benefit it may be preferable to direct treatment to those patients showing the greatest absolute risk reduction (ARR). The aim of this study was to compare the characteristics of subjects eligible for lipid-lowering drugs based on the AR criteria or on an ARR of >4.45%. A prospective study was carried out over 29 months in primary care in a part of the United Kingdom with a prevalence of coronary disease nearly 20% above the national average. Risk factors were recorded in men and women aged 30-75 years who were being considered by their primary care physician for lipid-lowering drug therapy. Of the 2351 patients included in the study, 2139 (91%) and 101 (4.3%) were, respectively, below and above the criteria for treatment by both AR and ARR criteria. In 111 (4.7%) subjects, treatment was recommended based on only one of the criteria-82 on AR and 29 on ARR. Comparing these two groups, those treated on AR only were older (mean age 68.1 years [SD, 4.1] vs. 49.1 years [SD, 4.6]; p<0.0001) and had a lower total cholesterol (260 vs. 288 mg/dL; p=0.015); higher high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (50 vs. 43 mg/dL; p=0.003), lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (160 vs. 184 mg/dL; p=0.03), a lower total to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio (5.4 vs. 7.1; p<0.0001), and lower triglycerides (258 vs. 435 mg/dL; p=0.007). The AR group also had a higher mean systolic blood pressure (170.9 vs. 158.9 mm Hg; p=0.013), presumably an attribute of their greater age. Although the AR and ARR groups did not show a difference in the proportion of males or diabetics, there was a significantly greater proportion of smokers in the latter group (72% vs. 35%; p=0.001). In conclusion, treatment recommendations based on AR alone would result in nontreatment of young subjects with significant hyperlipidemia and at high relative risk of coronary disease, whereas lipid-lowering drugs would be given preferentially to patients whose main coronary heart disease risk factors are age and hypertension but not hyperlipidemia. By contrast, treatment recommendations based on ARR ensure that lipid-lowering drugs are directed to patients who will derive the most benefit. Furthermore, delaying treatment in younger subjects at high relative risk but not high AR results in their accumulating significant coronary risk in the years before their AR exceeds an arbitrary threshold before lipid-lowering drugs are prescribed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12624559
Elevated plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels constitute a major risk factor for coronary heart disease. The plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration is dictated partly by the efficiency of intestinal cholesterol absorption. The efficacy of treatments designed to block cholesterol absorption is partially offset to the extent that the liver compensates for the interruption to the enterohepatic movement of cholesterol by increasing the rate at which it synthesizes cholesterol. Currently, the most widely-used treatment for hypercholesterolemia is based on a class of agents (statins) that partially inhibit cholesterol synthesis within the body. Recent clinical trials with a unique, potent, and selective cholesterol absorption inhibitor (ezetimibe) used in combination with lower doses of various statins showed an additive reduction in plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels which equaled the reduction achieved with maximal doses of statins given alone. Combination therapy using a statin and this novel cholesterol absorption inhibitor represents an efficacious new approach to the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in the general population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12624564
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12625030
Neuritic plaques composed of amyloid beta-protein (A beta) are an early and invariant neuropathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The current preclinical search for drugs is mainly focused on decreasing A beta production by inhibiting beta- or gamma-secretase, blocking the formation of these plaques by preventing A beta protofibril and fibril formation, and alleviating the toxic effects of neuritic plaque deposition. Increasing numbers of drugs currently used as therapies for other diseases are now entering clinical trials for AD, but the molecular targets of these drugs and their relevance to A beta toxicity needs to be thoroughly addressed. This knowledge will allow us to fully understand the A beta-related pathways in AD pathogenesis and explore novel therapeutic interventions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12625594
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) play an important role in cardiovascular remodeling by degrading the extracellular matrix. Enhanced MMP expression has been detected in the atherosclerotic plaque, and activation of MMPs appears to be involved in the vulnerability of the plaque. Circulating MMP levels are elevated in patients with acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina. Increased MMP expression is also observed after coronary angioplasty, which is related to late loss index after the procedure. These observations suggest that MMP expression may be not only related to instability of the plaque, but also to the formation of restenotic lesions. The development of therapeutic drugs targeted specifically against MMPs may be useful in the prevention of atherosclerotic lesion development, plaque rupture, and restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12626213
Most studies examining the potential cardioprotective effects of postmenopausal estrogen have been undertaken in healthy women, with doses that may not be appropriate for long-term intervention. New low-dose estrogen-progestin regimens alleviate postmenopausal symptoms with a favorable side-effect profile; however, little is known of the impact of such regimens in women at increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Hence, we have evaluated the effects of low-dose oral estrogen-progestin therapy on serum lipoprotein lipids, brachial artery reactivity and fibrinogen in hypercholesterolemic postmenopausal women in direct comparison with the effects of pravastatin, a lipid-lowering agent known to reduce cardiovascular events in women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12627404
Typical randomized clinical dose-finding studies consist of the comparison of several doses of a drug versus a placebo. Interest lies in estimating relevant doses among those under investigation for efficacy and safety variables, such as the minimum effective dose or the maximum safe dose (or estimating both doses simultaneously). Step-down procedures have been proposed for comparing the standardized differences of the dose groups against placebo. In this paper we consider the ratio of population means and propose stepwise confidence intervals for these ratios. These confidence intervals do not require multiplicity adjustments and yield the same decisions as the associated test procedures. In addition, several power concepts are investigated within the present framework. The results allow sample size determination in the design phase of a study for the probability of estimating correctly the dose of interest. Auxiliary results of a numerical study show the range of application of these methods.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12628031
Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous inhibitor of NO synthase, has been suggested to be a novel risk factor for endothelial dysfunction. It has previously been reported that hyperhomocysteinaemia may be associated with impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation and reduced plasma level of NO-derived endproducts (NOx). In the present study, plasma levels of arginine and ADMA were measured in twenty-one healthy control subjects, and in twenty-one hyperhomocysteinaemic subjects before and after 6 weeks and 12 months of folic acid supplementation, and compared with previously measured plasma NOx values in the hyperhomocysteinaemic subjects. Compared with control subjects, hyperhomocysteinaemic subjects had higher plasma levels of arginine and ADMA. More importantly, folic acid therapy significantly reduced plasma levels of arginine and ADMA. Furthermore, plasma levels of arginine and ADMA were positively correlated with plasma homocysteine levels and negatively correlated with plasma folate, as well as negatively correlated with plasma NOx. Our results suggest that ADMA may be a mediator of the atherogenic effects of homocysteine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12628358
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common disabling neurological disease of young adulthood. Following advances in the understanding of the immunological mechanisms that underlie the pathogenesis of MS, a growing arsenal of immunomodulatory agents is available. Two classes of immunomodulators are approved for long-term treatment of MS, the efficacy of several promising new concepts is being tested in clinical trials and classical immunosuppressive agents used in MS treatment have been shown to exert specific, immunomodulatory effects. Furthermore, two recent observations have changed our basic understanding of the pathogenesis of MS. First, immune cells in MS lesions have neuroprotective activity, which indicates a beneficial role of neuroinflammation. Second, there is evidence that axonal loss, rather than demyelination, underlies the progression of MS and, hence, constitutes a therapeutic target.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12630585
Parallel with the mounting evidence that atherosclerosis has a major inflammatory component, provoking agents that may initiate and drive this process have been sought. Infectious agents such as Chlamydia pneumoniae have been alleged to be activators of inflammation that may contribute to atherosclerosis and thus coronary artery disease (CAD) and its associated complications. A logical pneumoniae extension of this theory whether treating C pneumoniae infection with antibiotics and/or modulating inflammatory processes can affect CAD and its sequelae. This article discusses the potential role of C pneumoniae in atherosclerosis, its detection, and the rationale for antibiotics. Additionally, it summarizes the current randomized clinical trials of antichlamydial antibiotics in patients with CAD and draws conclusions based on the results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12633795
This study compared the relative efficacy of a once-daily niacin extended-release (ER)/lovastatin fixed-dose combination with standard doses of atorvastatin or simvastatin, with a special emphasis on relative starting doses. Subjects (n = 315) with elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and decreased high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol blood levels (defined as LDL cholesterol blood levels > or =160 mg/dl without coronary artery disease, or > or =130 mg/dl if coronary artery disease was present, and HDL cholesterol <45 mg/dl in men and <50 mg/dl in women) were randomized to atorvastatin, simvastatin, or niacin ER/lovastatin for 16 weeks. The primary efficacy variables were the mean percent change in LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol levels from baseline. After 8 weeks, the starting dose niacin ER/lovastatin 1,000/40 mg and the 10-mg starting dose atorvastatin both lowered mean LDL cholesterol by 38%. After 12 weeks, niacin ER/lovastatin 1,000/40 mg lowered LDL cholesterol by 42% versus 34% with the 20-mg starting dose of simvastatin (p <0.001). Niacin ER/lovastatin increased HDL cholesterol significantly more than atorvastatin or simvastatin at all compared doses (p <0.001). Niacin ER/lovastatin also provided significant improvements in triglycerides, lipoprotein(a), apolipoprotein A-1, apolipoprotein B, and HDL subfractions. A total of 6% of study subjects receiving niacin ER/lovastatin withdrew because of flushing. No significant differences were seen among study groups in discontinuance due to elevated liver enzymes. No drug-induced myopathy was observed. Niacin ER/lovastatin was comparable to atorvastatin 10 mg and more effective than simvastatin 20 mg in reducing LDL cholesterol, was more effective in increasing HDL cholesterol than either atorvastatin or simvastatin, and provided greater global improvements in non-HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and lipoprotein(a).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12634877
There are a number of theoretical reasons as to why 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) should be prescribed to patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). These agents are proven to prevent coronary heart disease, the major etiological factor in the development of CHF. Potential additional effects of these agents include inhibition of proinflammatory cytokine activity and other potential beneficial effects on cardiac remodeling. However, there are also possible adverse effects of this strategy, supported by the overriding observation that low plasma lipid levels portend a poorer prognosis in patients with established CHF. Potential mechanisms by which statins may directly confer adverse effects include a reduction in levels of the antioxidant ubiquinone and an increase in blood endotoxin levels, both of which may contribute to CHF disease progression. Given these uncertainties, an answer to the question of whether or not therapy for CHF should include statins requires a definitive clinical trial. The importance of such a trial is further highlighted by the already commonplace usage of statins amongst patients with CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12634978
Endothelial dysfunction is now recognised as an important process in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Nitric oxide (NO) release by the endothelium regulates blood flow, inflammation and platelet aggregation, and consequently its disruption during endothelial dysfunction can decrease plaque stability and encourage the formation of atherosclerotic lesions and thrombi. Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (statins) are often utilised in the prevention of coronary heart disease due to their efficacy at lowering lipid levels. However, statins may also prevent atherosclerotic disease by non-lipid or pleiotropic effects, for example, improving endothelial function by promoting the production of NO. There are various mechanisms whereby statins may alter NO release, such as inhibiting the production of mevalonate and important isoprenoid intermediates, thereby preventing the isoprenylation of the small GTPase Rho, which negatively regulates the expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS). Furthermore, statins may also increase eNOS activity via post-translational activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase Akt (PI3 K/Akt) pathway and/or through an interaction with the molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 90 (HSP90). Data suggest that statins may vary in their efficacy for enhancing the release of NO, and the mechanisms dictating these differences are not yet clear. By increasing NO production, statins may interfere with atherosclerotic lesion development, stabilise plaque, inhibit platelet aggregation, improve blood flow and protect against ischaemia. Therefore, the ability of statins to improve endothelial function through the release of NO may partially account for their beneficial effects at reducing the incidence of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12635468
Both simvastatin and pravastatin have been shown to improve endothelial function in patients with hypercholesterolemia. To our knowledge there has been no comparative study of these two HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on endothelial dysfunction measured by flow-mediated dilation of the brachial artery in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12635864
Patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) are prone to dyslipidemia and have a high risk of cardiovascular death. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of a 6-month treatment with simvastatin (10 mg at bedtime) on markers of endothelial cell injury in 12 hypercholesterolemic CAPD patients. Cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol fell significantly after 1 month of therapy. Simvastatin treatment significantly decreased concentrations of vascular cell adhesion molecule and intracellular adhesion molecule after 3 and 6 months of the therapy, respectively. Thrombomodulin decreased significantly after 6 months of the treatment, whereas von Willebrand's factor, P-selectin and E-selectin remained unaltered during simvastatin therapy. Simvastatin, an effective hypolipemic agent, favorably affects endothelial function and may potentially slow the progression of atherosclerosis and confer protection from thrombotic complications in patients with hypercholesterolemia undergoing CAPD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12636343
Onychomycosis can be improved or eradicated with appropriate treatment. Newer oral antifungal drugs are highly effective and have few adverse effects, although care in prescribing is needed because of potential drug interactions and hepatobiliary dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12637115
Guidelines for the prevention of coronary heart disease call for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction as the primary target of treatment and reduction of triglycerides (TG) as an additional target.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12637977
The relative contributions of insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction to the pathophysiology of Type 2 diabetes have been debated extensively. The concept that a feedback loop governs the interaction of the insulin-sensitive tissues and the beta cell as well as the elucidation of the hyperbolic relationship between insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion explains why insulin-resistant subjects exhibit markedly increased insulin responses while those who are insulin-sensitive have low responses. Consideration of this hyperbolic relationship has helped identify the critical role of beta-cell dysfunction in the development of Type 2 diabetes and the demonstration of reduced beta-cell function in high risk subjects. Furthermore, assessments in a number of ethnic groups emphasise that beta-cell function is a major determinant of oral glucose tolerance in subjects with normal and reduced glucose tolerance and that in all populations the progression from normal to impaired glucose tolerance and subsequently to Type 2 diabetes is associated with declining insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function. The genetic and molecular basis for these reductions in insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function are not fully understood but it does seem that body-fat distribution and especially intra-abdominal fat are major determinants of insulin resistance while reductions in beta-cell mass contribute to beta-cell dysfunction. Based on our greater understanding of the relative roles of insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction in Type 2 diabetes, we can anticipate advances in the identification of genes contributing to the development of the disease as well as approaches to the treatment and prevention of Type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12639175
To review the pharmacology, in vitro susceptibility, pharmacokinetics, clinical efficacy, and adverse effects of voriconazole, a triazole antifungal agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12639194
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12639199
Previous overviews suggested that hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), but not other lipid-lowering therapy (LLT), may reduce stroke incidence in coronary patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12639883
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12640189
We present clinical descriptions, metabolic features, and patterns of body fat loss of 16 patients with acquired generalized lipodystrophy (AGL) seen by us over the last 10 years. In addition, we review 63 cases of AGL reported in the literature. Based on these data, we propose new diagnostic criteria for AGL, the essential criterion being selective loss of body fat from large regions of the body occurring after birth. We also propose a subclassification of AGL into 3 varieties, type 1, the panniculitis variety; type 2, the autoimmune disease variety; and type 3, the idiopathic variety, which affect nearly 25%, 25%, and 50% of patients, respectively. Most of the patients presented in childhood and adolescence. Females were affected approximately 3 times more than males. Subcutaneous fat loss was severe and usually affected the face, trunk, abdomen, and extremities. In some patients, fat loss also involved the palms and soles and intraabdominal region; however, the bone marrow and retroorbital fat were preserved in all patients. Clinically, patients may have voracious appetite, fatigue, and acanthosis nigricans. Hepatomegaly was common, mostly due to hepatic steatosis. Most AGL patients had fasting and/or postprandial hyperinsulinemia, diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridemia, and low serum levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, leptin, and adiponectin. Diabetes mellitus and hypertriglyceridemia were less prevalent in the panniculitis variety compared with the idiopathic and autoimmune varieties. The management of AGL includes cosmetic surgery for loss of fat. Severe hypertriglyceridemia should be treated with a very low-fat diet and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation from fish oils. Management of diabetes is difficult and may necessitate insulin therapy in large doses. Insulin sensitizers such as metformin and thiazolidinediones have been used, although their long-term efficacy and safety remain unknown. Subcutaneous administration of recombinant leptin in AGL patients with hypoleptinemia effectively improves hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and hepatic steatosis. Leptin therapy, however, remains investigational. Fibrates alone or in combination with statins may be used to treat hypertriglyceridemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12640509
To study the differences between fluvastatin and pravastatin regarding LDL susceptibility to oxidation, plasma levels of total cholesterol (TC), HDL-C, LDL-C and triglycerides (TG) in hypercholesterolemic patients with established coronary heart disease (CHD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12641482
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have been established as the dominant treatment for coronary heart disease (CHD). This dominance is based on an impressive body of clinical trial evidence showing significant benefits in primary prevention of cardiovascular events in individuals at risk for CHD and in secondary prevention of such events in patients with CHD and high or normal plasma cholesterol levels. There is, however, significant room for improvement in the treatment of CHD with respect both to drug efficacy and to the disparity between evidence-based medicine and actual clinical practice particularly in relation to treatment strategies for the elderly. Current statins fall short of requirements for 'ideal' lipid-lowering treatment in several respects; 'super' statins and other agents currently in development may satisfy more of these requirements. Moreover, available therapies are not applied optimally, because of physician nonacceptance and/or patient noncompliance; thus, the majority of patients with CHD or its risk factors still have cholesterol levels that exceed guideline targets. There is also evidence that older patients with CHD, or at high risk of CHD, are undertreated - possibly because of concerns regarding the increased likelihood of adverse events or drug interactions or doubts regarding the cost effectiveness of statin therapy in this population. This group is of particular clinical relevance, since it is showing a proportionate rapid expansion in most national populations. To address their potential healthcare needs, the ongoing Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk (PROSPER) study is assessing the effects of pravastatin in elderly patients (5804 men and women aged 70-82 years) who either have pre-existing vascular disease or are at significant risk for developing it, with the central hypothesis that statin therapy (pravastatin 40 mg/day) will diminish the risk of subsequent major vascular events compared with placebo. After a 3.2-year treatment period, a primary assessment will be made of the influence of statin treatment on major cardiovascular events (a combination of CHD death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and fatal or nonfatal stroke). Optimal deployment of the currently available agents and of newer agents (no matter how well they satisfy requirements for ideal treatment) ultimately depends on the establishment of an evidence base and may require far-reaching educational programmes that change the way risk factor management is viewed by caregivers and patients alike.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12642064
Acute myocardial infarction is a common disease with serious consequences in mortality, morbidity, and cost to the society. Coronary atherosclerosis plays a pivotal part as the underlying substrate in many patients. In addition, a new definition of myocardial infarction has recently been introduced that has major implications from the epidemiological, societal, and patient points of view. The advent of coronary-care units and the results of randomised clinical trials on reperfusion therapy, lytic or percutaneous coronary intervention, and chronic medical treatment with various pharmacological agents have substantially changed the therapeutic approach, decreased in-hospital mortality, and improved the long-term outlook in survivors of the acute phase. New treatments will continue to emerge, but the greatest challenge will be to effectively implement preventive actions in all high-risk individuals and to expand delivery of acute treatment in a timely fashion for all eligible patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12643070
This paper reviews secondary prevention of stroke by the therapy of vascular risk factors, anticoagulation, surgical and endovascular procedures. Two recently published studies, the PROtection aGainst REcurrent Stroke Study (PROGRESS) and the Heart Protection Study (HPS) demonstrated for the first time the efficacy of antihypertensive and lipid lowering by statins in stroke secondary prevention. PROGRESS has shown that the combination of perindoprile and indapamide reduced the occurrence of ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes in hyper- and normotensive patients by 40%, whereas HPS demonstrated a 20% reduction of ischemic strokes in cases with normal or elevated serum cholesterol. Symptomatic carotid stenoses with a distal degree of > or = 70% should undergo endarterectomy; in the presence of a distal degree of stenosis of 50-69% an individual treatment decision is performed; carotid surgery is not indicated in < 50% stenoses. Patients with a cardiac source of embolism (except those with cardiac myxoma or bacterial endocarditis) should be anticoagulated with a target INR of 2.5 (range 2-3). Patients who have no indication for vascular surgery or anticoagulation will be treated with platelet inhibitors. Aspirin 100 mg/d or the combination aspirin-dipyridamole are the treatment of choice. If cerebral ischemia reoccurs with aspirin or in case of aspirin intolerance clopidogrel will be administered. Patients with cerebral ischemia occurring while they are treated with clopidogrel may receive an oral anticoagulation with a target INR of 2.0 (range 1.5-2.5).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12643184
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12644139
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12644150
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12646936
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12648032
To determine the short-term healthcare costs associated with intensive lipid lowering with atorvastatin initiated within 24-96 hours of the occurrence of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in patients in the UK.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12652161
The endothelium plays a key role in vascular homeostasis through the release of a variety of autocrine and paracrine substances, the best characterized being nitric oxide. A healthy endothelium acts to prevent atherosclerosis development and its complications through a complex and favorable effect on vasomotion, platelet and leukocyte adhesion and plaque stabilization. The assessment of endothelial function in humans has generally involved the description of vasomotor responses, but more widely includes physiological, biochemical and genetic markers that characterize the interaction of the endothelium with platelets, leukocytes and the coagulation system. Stable markers of inflammation such as high sensitivity C-reactive protein are indirect and potentially useful measures of endothelial function for example. Attenuation of the effect of nitric oxide accounts for the majority of what is described as endothelial dysfunction. This occurs in response to atherosclerosis or its risk factors. Much remains to be learned about the molecular and genetic pathophysiological mechanisms of endothelial cell abnormalities. However, pharmacological intervention with a growing list of medications can favorably modify endothelial function, paralleling beneficial effects on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. In addition, several small studies have provided tantalizing evidence that measures of endothelial health might provide prognostic information about an individual patient's risk of subsequent events. As such, the sum of this evidence makes the clinical assessment of endothelial function an attractive surrogate marker of atherosclerosis disease activity. The review will focus on the role of nitric oxide in atherosclerosis and the clinical relevance of these findings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12652162
Heart failure has been characterized by a reduction in cardiac contractile function resulting in reduced cardiac output. The clinical symptoms including mild tachycardia, reduced arterial pressure, increased venous or filling pressure and exercise intolerance have conceptually, to a large degree, been attributed to cardiac myocyte dysfunction. More recently, a vascular component has been recognized to contribute to heart failure. Among the most studied vascular mechanisms that might contribute to the development of heart failure has been the reduced production of nitric oxide or the reduced bioactivity of NO associated with both basic models of heart failure and disease in patients. The still evolving concept that heart failure is a cytokine activated state has, in addition, focused attention on the possibility that the cytokine driven isoform of NO synthase (NOS), iNOS, may produce sufficient quantities of NO to actually suppress cardiac myocyte function contributing to the reduced inotropic state in the failing heart. Thus, our view of the role of NO in the development of heart failure has evolved from simply a reduction in production of NO in blood vessels, to altered substrate availability (i.e. L-arginine), to increased scavenging of NO by superoxide anion, to increased production of NO from iNOS. As these concepts develop, our approach to the therapeutics of heart failure has also progressed with the recognition of the need to develop treatments directed towards addressing one or more of these etiologies. This review will focus on these aspects of the involvement of NO in the development of heart failure and some of the treatments that have developed from our understanding of the basic biology of NO to address these pathohysiologic states.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12652163
Endothelial dysfunction plays an important role in a number of cardiovascular diseases. An important pathogenetic factor for the development of endothelial dysfunction is lack of nitric oxide (NO), which is a potent endothelium-derived vasodilating substance. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), originally designed to lower plasma cholesterol levels, seem to ameliorate endothelial dysfunction by a mechanism so far only partly understood. However, statins increase nitric oxide synthase activity. It has been speculated that this and other "side effects" of statin treatment are due to inhibition of Rho, an intracellular signalling protein that initiates Rho kinase transcription. Moreover, statins possess anti-inflammatory characteristics. Some statins have proven to lower plasma levels of C-reactive protein, which is induced by pro-inflammatory cytokines. Other statins have been demonstrated to directly inhibit pro-inflammatory cytokine induction. Finally, some data suggest that statins might be able to counterbalance an increased production of oxygen free radicals. Since chronic heart failure is accompanied not only by endothelial dysfunction, but also by pro-inflammatory cytokine activation and enhanced formation of oxygen free radicals, it is tempting to speculate that statins might be an ideal candidate to treat certain features of this disease. The doses needed to achieve the desired effects might be much lower than those needed to treat hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12655157
The Japan Lipid Intervention Trial (J-LIT) study, a nationwide cohort study utilizing the clinical practice of general physicians, was designed to clarify the relationship between the incidence of coronary heart disease and serum lipid concentrations during simvastatin therapy, as well as the safety of the therapy, in a large number of Japanese hypercholesterolemic patients. All the enrolled patients were treated with simvastatin. The current study analyzed the lipid lowering effect and safety of the low-dose simvastatin therapy used in the J-LIT study. Open-labeled simvastatin was given to 51,321 patients at an initial dose of mostly 5 mg/day. After 6 months of the treatment, the average serum total cholesterol (TC) and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentrations in all the patients followed up were reduced by 18.3% and 26.0%, respectively, and that of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol increased 2.3% on average. These concentrations were well maintained throughout the 6-year treatment period. A minority of patients (1.4%) unexpectedly had a remarkable reduction in TC concentration by more than 40%. Hyper-responders, even to low-dose statin, were found for the first time in this large-scale and long-term investigation. Overall adverse drug reactions occurred in 3.3% of subjects during the 6-year treatment, the major events being hepatic and musculoskeletal disorders, of which the incidence was less than 1%. Low-dose simvastatin therapy of 5 mg/day effectively controlled the serum TC concentration by reducing it by approximately 20% on average in hypercholesterolemic Japanese patients, a reduction that corresponds to the effect of simvastatin 20 mg/day in Western studies. In addition, the low incidence of drug-related adverse events in this study may be also related to the low dosage of simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12655280
Measurement of antibodies to oxidized low-density lipoprotein (AB-oxLDL) has been proposed as a way of identifying individuals at risk for cardiovascular disease beyond the determination of LDL cholesterol (LDL-c) alone. While this hypothesis is appealing, evidence that AB-oxLDL is a risk factor independent of LDL-c levels remains to be established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12656644
Atherosclerosis is a disease process that affects the coronary, cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation. While great emphasis has been placed on the aggressive pharmacological management of coronary artery disease, less attention has been paid to the pharmacological management of peripheral vascular disease, despite its significant morbidity and mortality. The purpose of medical management in peripheral arterial disease is to relieve symptoms of claudication and to prevent thrombotic vascular events. These goals are best achieved through aggressive risk factor modification and pharmacotherapy. Risk factor modification includes smoking cessation, adequate control of blood pressure and cholesterol, as well as aggressive glycaemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. Antiplatelet therapy and relief of claudication is also achieved through pharmacotherapy. With aggressive risk factor modification and adequate pharmacotherapy, patients with peripheral arterial disease can have an improved quality of life as well as prolonged survival.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12656649
Lovastatin extended release (ER) provides a new form of delivery for lovastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. Lovastatin ER delivers the drug in a more sustained fashion, as shown by a smoother plasma concentration-time profile, a lower maximum plasma concentration and a prolonged half-life compared with that of lovastatin immediate release (IR). At dosages of 10-60 mg/day, lovastatin ER significantly reduced levels of total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol and triglycerides, and increased levels of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol, in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia in a randomised, double-blind study of 12 weeks' duration. These effects were maintained in a 6-month extension study in which patients received lovastatin 40 or 60 mg/day. In a randomised 4-week study in 24 patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia, the reduction in plasma LDL-cholesterol levels was significantly greater with lovastatin ER 40 mg/day than with the IR formulation administered at the same dosage. Lovastatin ER was well tolerated in all studies and adverse events were usually mild to moderate and transient. The tolerability profile of lovastatin ER was similar to that of lovastatin IR. There were no reports of clinically relevant elevations in liver transaminases or creatine phosphokinase attributed to the drug in recipients of lovastatin ER.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12657430
There is much evidence suggesting that there is a strong relationship between the deterioration of brain lipid homeostasis, vascular changes and the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). These associations include: (1). recognition that a key cholesterol transporter, apolipoprotein E type 4, acts a major genetic risk factor for both familial and sporadic AD; (2). epidemiological studies linking cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension and high plasma cholesterol, to dementia; (3). the discovery that small strokes can precipitate clinical dementia in cognitively normal elderly subjects; (4). the modulation of degradation of the amyloid precursor protein by cholesterol administration in cell culture and in animal models of beta-amyloid overproduction; and (5). the beneficial effect of cholesterol-lowering drugs, such as Probucol and statins, in combating common AD. The recent finding that there is a genetic association between the HMGR gene locus and sporadic AD further suggests that brain cholesterol metabolism is central to AD pathophysiology, and a potential therapeutic target for disease stabilization and primary disease prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12659359
Coronary heart disease (CHD) remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality throughout North America. The role played by lipid abnormalities is now well established, and primary care physicians can play a major role in reversing the increasing prevalence of CHD by following the recommended guidelines of the National Cholesterol Expert Panel (NCEP ATP-III). While many physicians are aware of the importance of lowering lipid levels, a large number of patients still fail to reach their treatment goals. It is therefore important to identify patients at risk of developing coronary events due to abnormal lipid profiles and to quickly implement effective prevention programs. Although diet and other lifestyle modifications should form the basis of lipid management, the addition of lipid-modifying drugs is often necessary. Several lipid-modifying agents are available, but the proven efficacy and good tolerability of statins has increasingly made them the drugs of choice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12659599
To compare the effects of simvastatin and atorvastatin on hemostatic parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12659977
The endothelium is a dynamic organ and responds to various physical and humoral conditions. The endothelium secretes several biologically active substances, both vasoconstrictors and vasodilators, which control these processes. Endothelial function is most commonly assessed as the vasodilatory response to stimuli. Several endothelium-dependent agonists have been identified, each of which acts through a membrane receptor. Nitric oxide which is continuously synthesized by the endothelium has a wide range of biological properties that maintain vascular homeostasis. It is a potent vasodilator and inhibitor of platelet aggregation and thus has an important protective role. Endothelial dysfunction in hypercholesterolemic patients is in large part due to a reduced bioavailability of NO. Traditional coronary risk factors, especially hypercholesterolemia, produce endothelial dysfunction even in patients with normal blood vessels. The underlying mechanisms involve a local inflammatory response, release of cytokines and growth factors, activation of oxidation-sensitive mechanisms in the arterial wall, modulation of intracellular signaling pathways, increased oxidation of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and quenching of nitric oxide. Clinical studies have shown a significant improvement in endothelial dysfunction following lowering of serum cholesterol levels, infusion of nitric oxide donors like L-arginine and exercise training. Clinical trials are underway examining the role of endothelin-1 receptor antagonists like bosentan in the prevention of graft atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12659988
Plaque stability and thrombogenicity contribute to development and clinical expression of atherosclerosis. Experimental studies have shown that lipoproteins or mevalonate regulate matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, tissue factor (TF), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) expression, providing nonlipid mechanism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12659994
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12660532
The aim of our work is to evaluate the role of statins and fibrates in the management of hyperlipidaemia in HIV-infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12660659
Coronary heart disease (CHD), the result of coronary atherosclerosis, is the largest single killer of Americans. Central to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis are the deposition and retention of cholesterol in the arterial walls. Lipid modification, therefore, is key to CHD prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12661042
The three major forms of immune-mediated inflammatory myopathy are dermatomyositis (DM), polymyositis (PM), and inclusion-body myositis (IBM). They each have distinctive clinical and histopathologic features that allow the clinician to reach a specific diagnosis in most cases. Magnetic resonance imaging is sometimes helpful, particularly if the diagnosis of IBM is suspected but has not been formally evaluated. Myositis-specific antibodies are not helpful diagnostically but may be of prognostic value; most antibodies have low sensitivity. Muscle biopsy is mandatory to confirm the diagnosis of an inflammatory myopathy and to allow unusual varieties such as eosinophilic, granulomatous, and parasitic myositis, and macrophagic myofasciitis, to be recognized. The treatment of the inflammatory myopathies remains largely empirical and relies upon the use of corticosteroids, immunosuppressive agents, and intravenous immunoglobulin, all of which have nonselective effects on the immune system. Further controlled clinical trials are required to evaluate the relative efficacy of the available therapeutic modalities particularly in combinations, and of newer immunosuppressive agents (mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus) and cytokine-based therapies for the treatment of resistant cases of DM, PM, and IBM. Improved understanding of the molecular mechanisms of muscle injury in the inflammatory myopathies should lead to the development of more specific forms of immunotherapy for these conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12662125
Lopinavir is a novel protease inhibitor (PI) developed from ritonavir. Coadministration with low-dose ritonavir significantly improves the pharmacokinetic properties and hence the activity of lopinavir against HIV-1 protease. Coformulated lopinavir/ritonavir was developed for ease of administration and to ensure both drugs are taken together, as part of combination therapy with other antiretroviral agents. Coformulated lopinavir/ritonavir-based regimens provide adequate and durable suppression of viral load and sustained improvements in CD4+ cell counts, as demonstrated in randomised trials in antiretroviral therapy-naive and -experienced adults and children. To date, development of primary resistance to lopinavir/ritonavir has not been observed in 470 antiretroviral therapy-naive patients treated for >48 weeks. The lopinavir/ritonavir-based regimen was more effective than nelfinavir in antiretroviral therapy-naive HIV-1-infected patients in a phase III trial. The coformulation is also effective as 'salvage' therapy, as shown by low cross-resistance rates in patients who failed to respond to treatment with other PIs in phase II trials. Coformulated lopinavir/ritonavir was well tolerated in both antiretroviral therapy-naive and -experienced HIV-1-infected adults and children with low rates of study drug-related treatment discontinuations. The most common adverse event in adults associated with lopinavir/ritonavir was diarrhoea, followed by other gastrointestinal disturbances, asthenia, headache and skin rash. The incidence of moderate-to-severe adverse events in children was low, skin rash being the most common. Changes in body fat composition occurred with equal frequency in lopinavir/ritonavir- and nelfinavir-treated naive patients, through week 60 in a phase III study. Although laboratory abnormalities occurred with similar frequency in both treatment groups, triglycerides grade 3/4 elevations were significantly more frequent with lopinavir/ritonavir. Total cholesterol and triglycerides grade 3/4 elevations appear to occur more frequently in PI-experienced than in PI-naive lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. A number of clinically important drug interactions have been reported with lopinavir/ritonavir necessitating dosage adjustments of lopinavir/ritonavir and/or the interacting drugs, and several other drugs are contraindicated in patients receiving the coformulation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12663406
To compare the effectiveness of lipid lowering drugs in lowering serum cholesterol concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12663600
The cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) plays a key role in the remodeling of triglyceride (TG)-rich and HDL particles. Sequence variations in the CETP gene may interfere with the effect of lipid-lowering treatment in type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12665389
The fact that transient ischaemic attacks are a harbinger for the possible development of ischaemic stroke has been recognised for several decades. However, within the past decade, our concepts regarding transient ischaemic attacks as a distinct entity from stroke and the prognosis for transient ischaemic attack patients have been challenged. In addition, clinical trials have clarified that modern transient ischaemic attack management is more complex than in the past, with the addition of newer pharmacological options to the stroke prevention armamentarium. Recent information regarding newer antiplatelet agents is reviewed in this article, along with results of clinical trials pertaining to warfarin in stroke prevention. The evolving role of statins, ACE inhibitors and estrogen replacement is reviewed. Finally, the appropriate use of surgery following transient ischaemic attacks is outlined. Recent studies have shown that many patients will benefit from a multimodal pharmacological approach following transient cerebral ischaemia, and the potential for combination therapy is highlighted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12665416
Osteoporosis remains a significant clinical problem despite effective therapies. Many patients cannot or will not take currently available therapies. For this reason research continues in search of more effective and more tolerable agents. Anabolic agents offer a unique mechanism of action. The anabolic agents parathyroid hormone and strontium will be discussed. The investigational bisphosphonates ibandronate, minodronate and zoledronic acid may offer the advantage of less frequent dosing. Arzoxifene, bazedoxifene, lasofoxifene, MDL-103,323 and ospemifene are investigational selective oestrogen receptor modulators shown to be effective in animal studies and are now in clinical studies. Tibolone is a tissue-specific steroid that is currently used in Europe for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Multiple studies have shown efficacy in improving bone mineral density, but no fracture studies have been conducted to date. While studies of the effect of isoflavones on bone mineral density have been encouraging, a large, multi-centre study in Europe showed no effect of isoflavones on fractures. The newly described agent osteoprotegerin has been shown in early studies to inhibit bone turnover. Other agents with unique mechanisms of action in early development include cathepsin K inhibitors, integrin receptor inhibitors, nitrosylated non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and Src inhibitors. The efficacy of statins in bone continues to be debated with no prospective, randomised studies yet to confirm the suggestion of benefit seen in epidemiological studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12665424
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the prototype inflammatory autoimmune disorder of the central nervous system and the most common cause of neurological disability in young adults exhibiting considerable clinical, radiological and pathological heterogeneity. Novel insights in the immunopathological processes, advances in biotechnology, development of powerful magnetic resonance imaging technologies together with improvements in clinical trial design led to a variety of evaluable therapeutic approaches. Therapy has changed dramatically over the past decade, yielding significant progress for the treatment of relapsing-remitting and secondary progressive MS. A substantial number of pivotal and preliminary reports continue to demonstrate encouraging new evidence that advances are being made in the care of MS patients. This review summarises recent progress with currently available disease-modifying therapies and - on the basis of present immunopathogenetic concepts - outlines ongoing studies as well as future treatment strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12667121
The anticoagulant, warfarin, and the antiplatelet agent, aspirin, have been shown to have similar benefits after myocardial infarction. As these agents have different mechanisms of action, the beneficial effects of warfarin and aspirin may be additive after myocardial infarction. In the Warfarin, Aspirin, Reinfarction Study (WARIS II), the main outcome was a composite of death, non-fatal reinfarction or thromboembolic stroke, whichever came first over 4 years. Compared to aspirin alone (160 mg/day), the risk reduction was 19% (p = 0.03) with warfarin alone (INR of 2.8 IU) and 29% (p = 0.001) with the combination of aspirin and warfarin (aspirin, 75 mg/day; warfarin, INR of 2.2 IU). This difference in the first event with warfarin alone or the combination, represented a reduction in reinfarction and thromboembolic stroke rather than death. For reinfarction, compared to aspirin alone (117 of 1206), there was a reduction with warfarin alone (90 of 1216) and a further reduction with the combination (69 of 1208). For thromboembolic stroke, compared to aspirin (32 of 1206), there were similar reductions with warfarin and the combination. There were more major and minor bleeding in the warfarin groups than the aspirin group, with major bleeding occurring in 8, 33 and 28 patients taking aspirin, warfarin and aspirin and warfarin, respectively. In conclusion, as compared with aspirin alone, therapy with moderate-intensity warfarin combined with aspirin and high-intensity warfarin alone, resulted in a reduced risk of reinfarction and ischemic stroke but a higher risk of bleeding.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12667571
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12667578
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12668486
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12669727
(1) Chronic myeloid leukaemia goes through three clinical phases: a chronic phase, an acceleration phase, and a terminal blast crisis. In the chronic phase, interferon alfa-2 is more effective than cytotoxic chemotherapies but it also has more adverse effects. (2) Imatinib inhibits tyrosine kinase, an enzyme encoded by the pathological gene BCR-ABL, which is created during a reverse translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22 (characteristic of chronic myeloid leukaemia). This translocation almost always creates the pathological chromosome Philadelphia in blood cell lines. (3) 1 027 patients were recruited to three non comparative trials of imatinib, each focusing on a different phase of chronic myeloid leukaemia. Efficacy was evaluated largely on the basis of blood cell count and clearance of cells harbouring the Philadelphia chromosome. (4) During the chronic phase, in patients in whom interferon alfa-2 had failed or been poorly tolerated, a major cytogenetic response, lasting at least one month, occurred in 35% of patients on imatinib, compared to 20% of patients on interferon alfa-2 + cytarabine (historical comparison). It is not known whether this translated into longer survival. (5) Preliminary results from a randomised but unblinded trial comparing imatinib with interferon + cytarabine seem to favour imatinib. Some patients developed relapses resistant to imatinib, owing to mutations in the BCR-ABL gene. (6) In patients going through the acceleration phase or blast crisis, imatinib did not improve survival compared with standard treatments. (7) The main adverse effects so far described with imatinib are gastrointestinal problems, oedema and fluid retention, and muscle and joint pain, which prompted patients to stop treatment in no more than 5% of cases. (8) Imatinib has a strong potential to interact with other drugs, including paracetamol, but few specific studies have been done. (9) In practice imatinib may be a useful option during the chronic phase, after interferon alfa-2 has failed or been stopped because of adverse effects, provided that its benefits, so far shown only in surrogate endpoints, translate into longer survival. During the acceleration phase and blast crisis imatinib may cause fewer side effects than existing treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12672343
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12672737
Statins (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors) are associated with skeletal muscle complaints, including clinically important myositis and rhabdomyolysis, mild serum creatine kinase (CK) elevations, myalgia with and without elevated CK levels, muscle weakness, muscle cramps, and persistent myalgia and CK elevations after statin withdrawal. We performed a literature review to provide a clinical summary of statin-associated myopathy and discuss possible mediating mechanisms. We also update the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reports on statin-associated rhabdomyolysis. Articles on statin myopathy were identified via a PubMed search through November 2002 and articles on statin clinical trials, case series, and review articles were identified via a PubMed search through January 2003. Adverse event reports of statin-associated rhabdomyolysis were also collected from the FDA MEDWATCH database. The literature review found that reports of muscle problems during statin clinical trials are extremely rare. The FDA MEDWATCH Reporting System lists 3339 cases of statin-associated rhabdomyolysis reported between January 1, 1990, and March 31, 2002. Cerivastatin was the most commonly implicated statin. Few data are available regarding the frequency of less-serious events such as muscle pain and weakness, which may affect 1% to 5% of patients. The risk of rhabdomyolysis and other adverse effects with statin use can be exacerbated by several factors, including compromised hepatic and renal function, hypothyroidism, diabetes, and concomitant medications. Medications such as the fibrate gemfibrozil alter statin metabolism and increase statin plasma concentration. How statins injure skeletal muscle is not clear, although recent evidence suggests that statins reduce the production of small regulatory proteins that are important for myocyte maintenance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12675696
Arterial hypertension is, besides age, the number one risk factor for ischaemic stroke. Patients with arterial hypertension frequently present with additional coexisting vascular risk factors interacting in a complex way.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12676174
Angiotensin II (AngII), the major effector peptide of renin-angiotensin system (RAS), is now recognized as a growth factor that regulates cell growth and fibrosis, besides being a physiological mediator restoring circulatory integrity. In the last few years, a large number of experimental studies has further demonstrated that AngII is involved in key events of the inflammatory process. Here, we summarize the wide variety of AngII functions and discuss them in relation with the inflammatory cascade. AngII increases vascular permeability (via the release of prostaglandins and vascular endothelial cell growth factor or rearrangement of cytoskeletal proteins) that initiates the inflammatory process. AngII could contribute to the recruitment of inflammatory cells into the tissue through the regulation of adhesion molecules and chemokines by resident cells. Moreover, AngII could directly activate infiltrating immunocompetent cells, including chemotaxis, differentiation and proliferation. Recent data also suggest that RAS activation could play a certain role even in immunologically-induced inflammation. Transcriptional regulation, predominantly via nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and AP-1 activation, and second mediator systems, such as endothelin-1, the small G protein (Rho) and redox-pathways are shown to be involved in the molecular mechanism by which AngII exerts those functions. Finally, AngII participates in tissue repair and remodeling, through the regulation of cell growth and matrix synthesis. In summary, recent data support the hypothesis that RAS is key mediator of inflammation. Further understanding of the role of the RAS in this process may provide important opportunities for clinical research and treatment of inflammatory diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12678210
Epidemiologic and experimental data suggest that isoflavones have benefits for preventing and treating some prostate disease. Isoflavone supplements may therefore be an important tool for men concerned about prostate disease, such as those with benign prostatic hypertrophy undergoing watchful waiting or those concerned about the potential for prostate cancer. Conclusive proof of a relationship between isoflavones and the prevention and treatment of prostate disease can only come from prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12678218
The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) compared four antihypertensive agents in patients 55 years and older: chlorthalidone, doxazosin, amlodipine, and lisinopril. The doxazosin arm was terminated early because of an excess of congestive heart failure. Chlorthalidone was at least equivalent to amlodipine and lisinopril in all of the outcomes measured, and was better in some, notably heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12678574
Atherosclerosis is a progressive systemic disorder that, in the initial stages, is often asymptomatic. The measurement of atherosclerotic burden using imaging techniques enables the clinical benefits of lipid-modifying therapies to be assessed in early atherosclerosis and facilitates more rapid evaluation of interventions in clinical trials compared with the measurement of clinical outcome. The effect of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, commonly referred to as 'statins', on disease progression has been assessed in a number of imaging studies both in patients with established coronary heart disease (CHD) and in those with subclinical atherosclerosis. Statins slow plaque progression and, in early atherosclerosis, they have been demonstrated to promote regression of atherosclerotic lesions. The benefits of statin therapy on soft atherosclerotic plaques that are still developing support the use of vascular measures to detect subclinical atherosclerosis, and the subsequent early intervention with statin therapy. Moreover, given that the effects of statins on atherosclerosis progression are evident even in normocholesterolaemic patients at increased risk of developing CHD, early intervention with statin therapy may be effective in preventing CHD, irrespective of lipid level.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12678682
Pharmacological modulation of serum lipid levels is a powerful means of favourably modifying the risk and incidence of coronary disease. High density lipoproteins (HDL) exert a beneficial influence on atherosclerotic disease, in part by modulating blood lipid metabolism. Three factors have contributed to the growing interest in HDL as a therapeutic target. Firstly, recent, if limited, clinical trials have demonstrated the cardiovascular benefits of modulating HDL. Secondly, on-going studies have clarified several aspects of HDL metabolism and opened new avenues for pharmacological intervention. Thirdly, the WHO foresees an enormous global increase in the incidence of type 2 diabetes, as well as a related disorder, the metabolic syndrome. Both have, as their primary complication, cardiovascular disease whilst one of the principal lipid disorders is a reduction in HDL. Thus for several cogent reasons, HDL has become a primary target for drug development. The review covers our understanding of HDL metabolism, and notably the contribution of recent studies, in the context of potential sites for intervention. The rationale for targeting such sites, and available human and animal data on the cardiovascular consequences of modulating their activities, is discussed. Finally, the current status of drugs developed with a view to influencing HDL metabolism is presented.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12678859
Coronary artery stents have emerged as the preferred tool for percutaneous coronary interventions during the past decade by eliminating abrupt vessel closure and reducing restenosis compared with balloon angioplasty. While coronary artery stents prevent constrictive arterial remodeling and elastic recoil, the implantation is associated with more severe arterial vascular injury than balloon angioplasty alone. The arterial injury initiates a vasculoproliferative response with smooth muscle cell proliferation and migration as well as extracellular matrix formation, which may lead to severe neointimal hyperplasia with in-stent restenosis in 10-30% of cases. Sirolimus, a naturally occurring macrocyclic lactone, has been identified as a pharmacological cell cycle inhibitor with potent antiproliferative and antimigratory effects on vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro. The systemic administration of sirolimus has been shown to effectively reduce neointimal hyperplasia in experimental restenosis models. Subsequently, sirolimus has been incorporated at therapeutically important doses into biocompatible polymers, which made it suitable for stent-based drug elution. Investigation of sirolimus eluting stents in both experimental and clinical restenosis studies have demonstrated dramatic reductions in neointimal hyperplasia. Accordingly, sirolimus eluting stents offer an attractive mode of local drug delivery by minimizing systemic toxicity and maximizing local dose requirements. In addition, sirolimus eluting stents hold great promise to effectively prevent restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12679222
In this study, we evaluated the effect of S 18886, a specific thromboxane A(2) receptor antagonist, on endothelial function in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12679223
Research into the oxidation of lipoproteins has yielded many new insights into the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. However, despite lipoprotein oxidation's biologically plausible role in atherogenesis, several studies have reported inconsistent effects of antioxidants on clinical coronary end points, in sharp contrast with the studies of lipid modification with the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A inhibitors, or statins. There appears to be little support for the use of antioxidants in coronary prevention. However, the picture remains incomplete. What are the limitations of available antioxidant studies and the agents used? Until the picture can be clarified, lipid modification with strategies proved to reduce the risk for coronary events, such as statins or dietary changes in the style of the Mediterranean diet, should be better implemented in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12679230
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12679753
The number of patients with coexisting chronic kidney disease (CKD) and cardiovascular disease is growing rapidly. Treatment of these patients is challenging, primarily because of a lack of pharmacokinetic and clinical trial data associated with these combined disease entities. In this report, we discuss the cardiovascular disease risk associated with CKD and review the use of anticoagulation for acute cardiovascular disease in patients with CKD. We evaluate the potential role of direct thrombin inhibitors in patients with renal disease who have acute coronary syndromes, with particular focus on the clinical efficacy of bivalirudin. We conclude that direct thrombin inhibitors, including bivalirudin and argatroban, may be promising alternatives to heparin in patients who have renal insufficiency and are therefore at an increased risk for bleeding. In the treatment of patients with advanced renal insufficiency and cardiovascular disease, however, these agents should be used with dose modification to account for altered excretion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12679760
The Long-Term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaemic Disease (LIPID) study showed that cholesterol-lowering therapy prevented further events in patients with coronary heart disease and average cholesterol levels. The aim of this subgroup analysis was to assess the effects of pravastatin in women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12680480
Starting lipid-lowering therapy in the hospital, especially with statins, has become an important component in the management of patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). It improves outcomes and increases patient motivation and long-term adherence. In addition, discontinuation of statin therapy in patients with ACS after hospital admission is associated with an increased risk of adverse outcomes. Recent non-ST elevation ACS guidelines recommend beginning statin therapy, along with dietary intervention, in patients whose low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels exceed 130 mg/dl within 24-96 hours after hospital admission. Various strategies have been developed to aid in the implementation of in-hospital lipid-lowering therapy. Pharmacists can play a valuable role in optimizing drug therapy for dyslipidemia and ensuring long-term adherence.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12680984
Abstract Antithrombotic treatment has now been joined by other evidence-based drug interventions for prevention of stroke, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitors. The efficacy of oral anticoagulation in atrial fibrillation has not been seen in other stroke-prone groups, although trials are continuing. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging improves diagnostic accuracy in acute stroke, which is important in arriving at the right secondary prevention strategy. Carotid endarterectomy has been shown to be beneficial for 50-69% symptomatic -stenosis but with a much narrower therapeutic index than for 70-99% stenosis. A comparison of endarterectomy with angioplasty and/or stent placement has been the subject of one small trial suggesting similar procedural stroke and mortality risks. Device closure of cardiac abnormalities increases in the absence of any trial data, and in spite of a low subsequent stroke risk for young patients with isolated patent foramen ovale treated with aspirin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12682802
To examine in vivo the effect of erythromycin on the pharmacokinetics of rosuvastatin [an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase]. Erythromycin is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 that markedly increases circulating levels of some other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12683265
This article has reviewed the emerging side-effect profiles of second-generation antipsychotic medications. Although these medications have favorable extrapyramidal side-effect profiles, clinicians must be aware of their propensity to cause weight gain, glucose and lipid abnormalities, and cardiac and sexual side effects. If clinicians are proactive about warning patients about these side effects and appropriately monitoring them, further morbidity and mortality may be prevented in this patient population. Initial choices of medication should be made based on the relative side-effect profiles in light of a particular patient's medical status. In the future, new treatments may be developed, with even fewer side effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12685616
Combination therapy for dyslipidemia holds promise as effective treatment for patients with multiple lipid disorders, especially those at high risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12686031
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12686036
The lowering of cholesterol concentrations in individuals at high risk of cardiovascular disease improves outcome. No study, however, has assessed benefits of cholesterol lowering in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) in hypertensive patients who are not conventionally deemed dyslipidaemic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12686335
Combined hyperlipidemia predisposes subjects to coronary heart disease. Two lipid abnormalities--increased cholesterol and atherogenic dyslipidemia--are potential targets of lipid-lowering therapy. Successful management of both may require combined drug therapy. Statins are effective low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol-lowering drugs. For atherogenic dyslipidemia (high triglycerides, small LDL, and low high-density lipoprotein [HDL]), fibrates are potentially beneficial. The present study was designed to examine the safety and efficacy of a combination of low-dose simvastatin and fenofibrate in the treatment of combined hyperlipidemia. It was a randomized, placebo-controlled trial with a crossover design. Three randomized phases were employed (double placebo, simvastatin 10 mg/day and placebo, and simvastatin 10 mg/day plus fenofibrate 200 mg/day). Each phase lasted 3 months, and in the last week of each phase, measurements were made of plasma lipids, lipoprotein cholesterol, plasma apolipoproteins B, C-II, and C-III and LDL speciation on 3 consecutive days. Simvastatin therapy decreased total cholesterol by 27%, non-HDL cholesterol by 30%, total apolipoprotein B by 31%, very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) + intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL) cholesterol by 37%, VLDL + IDL apolipoprotein B by 14%, LDL cholesterol by 28%, and LDL apolipoprotein B by 21%. The addition of fenofibrate caused an additional decrease in VLDL + IDL cholesterol and VLDL + IDL apolipoprotein B by 36% and 32%, respectively. Simvastatin alone caused a small increase in the ratio of large-to-small LDL, whereas the addition of fenofibrate to simvastatin therapy caused a marked increase in the ratio of large-to-small LDL species. Simvastatin alone produced a small (6%) and insignificant increase in HDL cholesterol concentrations. When fenofibrate was added to simvastatin therapy, HDL cholesterol increased significantly by 23%. No significant side effects were observed with either simvastatin alone or with combined drug therapy. Therefore, a combination of simvastatin 10 mg/day and fenofibrate 200 mg/day appears to be effective and safe for the treatment of atherogenic dyslipidemia in combined hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12686348
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12689687
Although several studies have reported a lower risk of osteoporotic fracture in hypercholesterolemic patients treated with statins, so far longitudinal studies on the effects of statins on bone are lacking. The aim of the present study was to evaluate bone mineral density (BMD) and bone turnover changes induced by 1-year simvastatin treatment on postmenopausal women. Thirty consecutive postmenopausal hypercholesterolemic women (61.2 +/- 4.9 years) were treated for 12 months with 40 mg/day simvastatin and 30 normocholesterolemic age-matched postmenopausal women provided control data. In all subjects, at baseline and at 3-month intervals, serum lipids, calcium, phosphate, total and bone alkaline phosphatase (Bone-ALP), and carboxy-terminal fragment of type I collagen (CTx) were measured in a fasting blood sample. At baseline and after 6 and 12 months BMD was measured at lumbar spine (BMD-LS) and at femur (BMD-Ftot) and at femoral neck (BMD-Fn) by DXA. In the simvastatin-treated group Bone-ALP showed a significant increase (P < 0.05) with respect to baseline from the sixth month, whereas serum CTx showed a weak and nonsignificant increase over the study period. In treated women BMD-LS, BMD-Fn, and BMD-Ftot increased respectively by 1.1, 0.9, and 0.4% at Month 6; and by 2.8, 1.0, and 0.8% at Month 12. In controls BMD-LS, BMD-Fn, and BMD-Ftot at the end of the study period decreased by 1.6, 1.4, and 1.2%, respectively. The difference between controls and simvastatin-treated patients was significant (P < 0.05) for both BMD-LS and BMD-Fn only at Month 12. In conclusion our results, although obtained from a small sample of postmenopausal hypercholesterolemic women, suggest a probable positive effect of simvastatin on bone formation and BMD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12690915
Significant differences between sexes may influence the prevalence, incidence and severity of the heart failure syndrome. These differences may also interfere with treatment and management. In this review sex differences and similarities have been analyzed focusing on epidemiology, drug therapy and psychological implications. Pathophysiological differences but also a selection bias are evident; such differences bear an influence on clinical management. Gender differences exist even in the health-related quality of life, depression and coping ability. No studies have been specifically designed to investigate gender differences and the exclusion of elderly persons (mainly women) from large trials may compromise the quality of their care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12690917
The effects of stent carbon coating on the activation of inflammatory and endothelial cells and of coagulation were assessed in patients undergoing coronary artery stent implantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12692746
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12693729
Beta-blockers are a highly effective treatment for patients with all grades of heart failure secondary to LV systolic dysfunction. Beta-blockers are best deployed as a form of tertiary prevention in heart failure but have a very limited role for the treatment of a heart failure crisis. Physicians and patients need to understand the time course of the effects of beta-blocker therapy. The initial effects are often neutral or adverse, though the benefits, at least of carvedilol, may be apparent within days in patients with severe heart failure. Benefits accumulate gradually over a period of weeks to months. Some patience, perseverance, and education are required in order to allow patients to reap the full benefits of beta-blocker therapy for this malignant disease. Initiation of treatment early in the course of the disease maximizes the effectiveness and acceptance of therapy. Trials are under way to determine whether the benefits of beta-blockers extend to patients over 80 years of age and to those with preserved LV systolic function. It is likely that important differences exist between beta-blockers in terms of their clinical benefit, though whether differences exist between the agents that have been reported to be effective so far awaits the outcome of a large clinical trial. It is unclear whether the target doses of beta-blockers currently recommended are optimal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12693732
In summary, over a decade of investigation has demonstrated the pathophysiologic importance of TNF in the development and progression of cardiac dilatation and heart failure. Although the signaling pathways that regulate the cardiac production of TNF have not yet been identified and the potential benefits of TNF expression to the heart are not understood, the benefits of anticytokine therapy in animal models is marked. Unfortunately, these salutary effects in the laboratory have not transitioned to the bedside. To accomplish the translational portion of the cytokine story, we must identify the point in time during the transition from compensated to decompensated heart failure in which TNF is expressed. In addition, we must better understand the role that other down-stream and non-TNF-dependent cytokines play in the development of heart failure. Not all patients are the same; therefore, we must pursue clinical trials that will allow us to elucidate the optimal degree of TNF inhibition, identify the patients who are most likely to respond to TNF inhibition, and determine what the true, long-term effects of TNF inhibition may be. Finally, we must recognize that inflammatory activities can exist in tissues and organs in the absence of TNF. Thus, anticytokine strategies alone might not be effective in ameliorating the signs and symptoms of heart failure. It is hoped that the failure of recent studies to demonstrate salutary benefits in patients with class II to IV heart failure will not diminish enthusiasm for the long-term potential of anticytokine therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695460
To investigate the effects of preoperative simvastatin treatment on leucocyte-endothelial interactions following coronary artery bypass surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695469
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695723
CHF is highly prevalent in ESRD and is a leading cause of death in such patients. Hypertension, renal anemia, and comorbid conditions such as coronary artery disease are particularly important risk factors for CHF in ESRD. Dialysis hypotension may be a marker of poor prognosis in such persons. Recent studies suggest that lipid peroxidation and L-carnitine deficiency may contribute to CHF in some patients with ESRD. All forms of renal replacement therapy are capable of ameliorating symptoms of CHF, but their effect on cardiovascular mortality has not been firmly established. Drug therapy, particularly angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-adrenergic receptor blockers, is under-used in patients with ESRD and CHF. Heart/kidney transplantation may be a viable option for some patients with advanced CHF and ESRD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12695727
Even though cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in patients with CRF and end-stage renal disease (ESRD), ill-conceived notions have led to therapeutic nihilism as the predominant strategy in the management of cardiovascular disease in these populations. The recent data clearly support the application of proven interventions in the general population, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and statins to patients with CRF and ESRD. The advances in coronary stents and intracoronary irradiation have decreased the restenosis rates in renal failure patients. Coronary artery bypass with internal mammary graft might be the procedure of choice for coronary revascularization in these patients. The role of screening for asymptomatic coronary disease is established as a pretransplant procedure, but it is unclear whether this will be applicable to all patients with ESRD. Future studies need to focus on unraveling the mechanisms by which uremia leads to increased cardiovascular events to design optimal therapies targeted toward these mechanisms and improve cardiovascular outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12698208
Statins reduce cholesterol levels through competitive inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the key enzyme that regulates cholesterol synthesis. The cholesterol-lowering effect of statins is also due to an increase in the uptake of cholesterol by cells as a result of intracellular cholesterol depletion and enhanced expression of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors. The use of statins as lipid-lowering agents has lead to remarkable changes in the treatment and prevention of ischemic heart disease. Results of large clinical trials of patients with ischemic heart disease have demonstrated that statins reduce inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein, an independent risk factor in the disease. Statins exhibit properties that are beyond their lipid-lowering effects. These non-lipid-lowering properties involve the inhibition of the isoprenoid pathway through decreased synthesis of many nonsteroidal isoprenoid compounds. The focus on the immunomodulatory effect of statins is the result of the positive outcome of pravastatin treatment in cardiac transplantation patients, as well as angiographic regression studies showing insignificant changes in the degree of coronary stenosis despite a large reduction in cardiac events. Statin treatment reduces the risk of ischemic stroke despite the fact that LDL cholesterol is not directly associated with the risk of stroke. This observation lead to the investigation of the role of statins in inflammation and the immune system. Recent research data demonstrated that statins inhibit the induction of the major histocompatibility (MHC) class II expression by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), leading to repression of MHC II-mediated T-cell activation. Furthermore, statins inhibit the expression of specific cell surface receptors on monocytes, adhesion molecules and also integrin-dependent leucocyte adhesion. While statins may stimulate the secretion of caspase-1, IL-1beta and IL-18 in peripheral mononuclear cells in response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis, they exhibit additional effects on inflammation by decreasing IL-6 synthesis in human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) in vitro. The focus of this monograph is to highlight the role of statins in the modulation of the immune system and inflammatory processes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12698311
To determine the extent to which cardiovascular therapies are prescribed in primary care for those with diabetes, compared with those without diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12699071
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12699073
Endothelial dysfunction is recognized as an early event in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Many risk factors cause endothelial dysfunction, such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, cigarette smoking, and diabetes mellitus. The precise steps leading to endothelial dysfunction are still being elucidated. Increasing evidence indicates that oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (ox-LDL) plays an important role in endothelial dysfunction. Ox-LDL induces endothelial injury; inhibits apoptosis, monocyte adhesion, and platelet aggregation; and inhibits endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression/activity, all of which contribute to atherosclerotic process. Several pharmacologic agents, such as 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins), have been shown to provide endothelial stabilization through mechanisms that go beyond their primary therapeutic effect. Alteration in the endothelial function might result from increase in eNOS activity, reduction in the production of free radicals, inhibition of ox-LDL action, or other undefined mechanisms. This review will focus on the protective role and some of the mechanisms of statins in ox-LDL-induced endothelial dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12699074
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) are successfully used for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and profoundly reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in hypercholesterolemic patients. Endothelial dysfunction is the early state of atherosclerosis and predicts adverse cardiac events and mortality. Reduced nitric oxide (NO) bioactivity in the vascular wall, caused by increased free oxygen-radical generation and decreased NO production, seems to be an important underlying mechanism. It is well established that statins improve endothelial dysfunction in hypercholesterolemic patients. However, results from in vitro studies, animal experiments, and small clinical trials suggest that statins may improve vascular function after short-term treatment in hyper- and normocholesterolemic individuals. The underlying mechanisms may at least in part be related to the cholesterol-independent effects of statins on vascular cells. Cellular antioxidative properties of statins, leading to decreased oxidative stress and restoration of NO bioactivity, may be of special relevance for the improvement of vascular function. However, further studies and clinical intervention trials are required to clarify the clinical importance of the pleiotropic effects in humans and their contribution to the well-established clinical benefits of statins and to confirm a beneficial effect of statin therapy on endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular events in normocholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12699076
Lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) belongs to the integrin family and plays an important role in leukocyte trafficking and in T-cell activation. Random screening of chemical libraries identified the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor lovastatin as an inhibitor of the LFA-1/intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 interaction. The effect of lovastatin on LFA-1 was found to be unrelated to the inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase and to be mediated by lovastatin binding to a novel allosteric site within LFA-1. The biological relevance of LFA-1 inhibition by statins with respect to the overall benefit of this drug class is reviewed. The implications of the statin effect on LFA-1 for future drug design and therapy are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12699077
Deregulation of any of the steps in cell growth, proliferation and apoptosis may result in its malignant transformation. Statins, along with their lipid-lowering potential, modify several processes in the cell cycle. These agents inhibit cell proliferation and arrest cell cycle progression by interrupting growth-promoting signals. Statins selectively induce proapoptotic protential in tumor cells and synergistically enhance proapoptotic potential of several cytotoxic agents. Statins alter angiogenic potential of cells by modulating apoptosis inhibitory effects of VEGF and decrease secretion of metalloproteases. Statins also alter adhesion and migration of tumor cells, thereby inhibiting tumor invasion and metastasis. Statins suppress rate of activation of multiple coagulation factors and thus prevent coagulation-mediated angiogenesis. Statins have been shown to have anti-tumor activity in experimental models. Various anti-neoplastic properties of statins are probably a result of inhibition of posttranslational modifications of growth regulatory proteins. Molecular mechanisms of antiproliferative, proapoptotic and antiangiogenic effects of statins are reviewed in this chapter.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12700376
Adverse events related to drugs occur frequently among inpatients, and many of these events are preventable. However, few data are available on adverse drug events among outpatients. We conducted a study to determine the rates, types, severity, and preventability of such events among outpatients and to identify preventive strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12701338
The importance of statins for the prevention and treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD), the recent paradoxical effects of hormone replacement therapy on prevention of CAD, and the role of nontraditional risk factors in CAD in women are examined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12701787
Quality of life (QoL) is of increasing interest in major surgical procedures. Mitral valve reconstruction (MRr) is assumed to be better tolerated than mitral valve replacement (MVR). The study aim was to assess mid-term QoL in patients undergoing isolated mitral valve surgery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12701992
Patients on warfarin and their physicians must constantly balance the risks of bleeding and clotting. We offer practical tips for safe and effective warfarin therapy, based on the practices of the Anticoagulation Clinic of The Cleveland Clinic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12704478
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12704978
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12707064
The statin treatment of dyslipidemia is associated with a reduced risk of development of Alzheimer disease (AD). The effect may be mediated by a reduction in cholesterol biosynthesis in the brain, by lowering levels of apolipoprotein E (apo E)-containing lipoproteins, or by pleitropic effects such as reduction in beta-amyloid production. In the brain, cholesterol from damaged or dying neurons is converted to 24S-hydroxycholesterol by cholesterol 24-hydroxylase (CYP46). The oxysterol is subsequently transferred across the blood-brain barrier, transported to the liver by low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), and excreted as bile acids. Most of plasma 24S-hydroxycholesterol is derived from brain cholesterol; consequently, plasma levels of the oxysterol reflect brain cholesterol catabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12707251
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12710288
The use of cardiovascular secondary prevention medications in patients with acute coronary syndromes was compared in 4 sequential observational surveys carried out in France from 1995 to 2000. The Usik 1995 and Usic 2000 surveys included patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction, while the 2 Prevenir surveys (1998 and 1999) assessed the medications prescribed in patients with acute coronary syndromes. Antiplatelet agents were prescribed in 91% of the patients in 1995, 93% in 1998 and 1999 and 96% in 2000; for beta-blockers, the respective figures were: 64%, 68%, 75% and 76%. For ACE-Inhibitors, the figures were: 46%, 41%, 41% and 50%. For statins, the prescription increased from 10% to 36%, 59% and 64%. In 1995, 8% of the patients received both antiplatelet agents, beta-blockers and statins (4% of them also had an ACE-Inhibitor); in 2000, the respective figures were 53% and 27%. The results of the recent trials of secondary prevention medications have had a considerable impact on real-life practice in France during the late 1990s.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12710848
Atherosclerosis is a form of arterial disease that manifests in the coronary circulation as coronary artery disease (CAD), in the carotid arteries as cerebrovascular disease, and in the aorta and lower extremity arteries as peripheral arterial disease (PAD). The systemic nature of the disease is reflected in the fact that individuals with PAD or carotid artery disease are more likely to have CAD than those without. Since individuals with PAD are at markedly increased risk of cardiovascular ischemic events, early identification of this population and more aggressive medical interventions could substantially improve both morbidity and survival. The incidence of PAD in the general population is high, and currently affects 8-10 million Americans. The risk of developing PAD is predicted by both age and common atherosclerosis risk factors (e.g., smoking and diabetes). Efficient office-based PAD detection depends on the application of objective techniques to establish this diagnosis. Objective noninvasive tests, such as measurement of the ankle-brachial index (ABI), are known to be more sensitive than traditional clinical assessments. Since the major threat to patients with PAD is from secondary cardiovascular ischemic events, a primary therapeutic goal is to modify atherosclerotic risk factors. While national recommendations mandate aggressive lowering of serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels as a primary treatment goal in all patients with overt atherosclerosis, as 'coronary heart disease risk equivalent' syndromes, individuals with PAD are less intensively treated than those with CAD. Statins are the most effective of current treatments in lowering LDL-C, and have proven efficacy in secondary prevention among patients with established CAD. The use of statin medications in high-risk groups such as PAD patients could prove particularly beneficial in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and therefore merits prospective clinical investigation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12711884
We evaluated the clinical outcome and the prognostic factors at 6-year follow-up of patients with acute coronary syndrome without critical coronary arterial narrowing. The mean follow-up was 73 +/- 19 months. Mortality rate was 13%, and 20 patients (12%) had major cardiac event, 8 patients (5%) had stroke and 10 patients (6%) underwent revascularization. Multivariate analysis matched for age and ejection factor showed that moderate disease (stenosis 40-59%) (OR = 2.713, p < 0.024) was an independent predictive factor of major cardiac event.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12713683
Bosentan is the first endothelin (ET) receptor antagonist approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the management of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). In patients with World Health Organization Class III and IV PAH, bosentan has demonstrated improvement in dyspnea and exercise tolerance. ET also plays an important role in the pathophysiology of different vascular diseases. Therefore, bosentan also may have the potential to alter the outcome of many other diseases, such as heart failure, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, and renal disease, as well as cerebrovascular disorders. Because of the rarity and the poor prognosis of patients with PAH, as well as the requirement of close monitoring of bosentan (due to its potential of causing liver dysfunction and its teratogenic effects), bosentan is currently available only through a special access program and is distributed by certain selected pharmacies. Patients who are receiving bosentan should be taught to recognize early signs and symptoms of liver dysfunction and possible pregnancy. In addition, bosentan is not only a substrate but also an inducer of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9. Therefore, it is anticipated that numerous drug interactions may occur. Patients should be advised to consult their physicians or pharmacists should they need to consume other prescription or nonprescription medications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12713763
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12713766
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of ezetimibe 10 mg administered with pravastatin in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714109
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714124
To analyze the effects of short-term therapy with simvastatin on walking performance in hypercholesterolemic patients with peripheral vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714133
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714156
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714159
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12714164
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12715145
The cardiovascular continuum describes the way from risk factors to atherosclerosis, acute cardiovascular events (unstable angina and myocardial infarction), and development of terminal heart failure and its complications. Following this way, advances are reported in the prevention of cardiovascular disease, in noninvasive diagnostics and revascularization of coronary artery disease, and in new therapeutic options of acute myocardial infarction. The following issues are reported in detail: (1) significance of statins, inhibition of platelet aggregation and vitamins in primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease, (2) comparison of the angiotensin receptor blocker losartan and the beta-blocker atenolol in hypertension (LIFE study), (3) magnetic resonance angiography for the detection of coronary stenoses, (4) advantages and disadvantages of operative and interventional coronary revascularization considering elderly patients and sirolimus-eluting stents, and (5) efficacy of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition and low molecular weight heparin in acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12716220
Childhood nephrotic syndrome is a rare condition with an incidence of 1-2 per 100000 children aged below 16 years. Untreated idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS) is associated with increased risks of life-threatening infection, thromboembolism, lipid abnormalities, and malnutrition. The aim of the management of INS in children is to induce and maintain complete remission with resolution of proteinuria and edema without serious adverse effects of therapy. The majority of children have corticosteroid sensitive idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (CSINS), and in these children, corticosteroid therapy is the mainstay of therapy to induce remission. Data from a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) indicate that prolonged courses of corticosteroids (up to 7 months) given in the first episode of CSINS reduce the risk of relapse. Nevertheless, many children relapse, and are at risk of corticosteroid toxicity if frequent courses of corticosteroids are required. Data from RCTs supports the use of alkylating agents (cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil), cyclosporine, and levamisole in these children to achieve prolonged periods of remission. The specific management of corticosteroid-resistant idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (CRINS) is more difficult since few therapies are consistently effective, and data from RCTs are limited. In such children, cyclosporine, alkylating agents, and high dose intravenous methylprednisone may be used. In addition to specific therapies for INS, supportive therapies are commonly used to control edema (loop diuretics, aldosterone antagonists, albumin infusions, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors), reduce the risk of infection (antibacterials, pneumococcal vaccination) and thromboembolism (aspirin [acetylsalicylic acid]), and to control hyperlipidemia (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors), especially in children with CRINS.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12717402
Fatty liver disease that develops in the absence of alcohol abuse is recognized increasingly as a major health burden. This report summarizes the presentations and discussions at a Single Topic Conference held September 20-22, 2002, and sponsored by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. The conference focused on fatty liver disorders. Estimates based on imaging and autopsy studies suggest that about 20% to 30% of adults in the United States and other Western countries have excess fat accumulation in the liver. About 10% of these individuals, or fully 2% to 3% of adults, are estimated to meet current diagnostic criteria for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Sustained liver injury leads to progressive fibrosis and cirrhosis in a fraction, possibly up to one third, of those with NASH, and NASH may be a cause of cryptogenic cirrhosis. NASH is now a significant health issue for obese children as well, leading to cirrhosis in some. The diagnostic criteria for NASH continue to evolve and rely on the histologic findings of steatosis, hepatocellular injury (ballooning, Mallory bodies), and the pattern of fibrosis. Generally recognized indications for biopsy include establishing the diagnosis and staging of the injury, but strict guidelines do not exist. Liver enzymes are insensitive and cannot be used reliably to confirm the diagnosis or stage the extent of fibrosis. Older age, obesity, and diabetes are predictive of fibrosis. The pathogenesis of NASH is multifactorial. Insulin resistance may be an important factor in the accumulation of hepatocellular fat, whereas excess intracellular fatty acids, oxidant stress, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) depletion, and mitochondrial dysfunction may be important causes of hepatocellular injury in the steatotic liver. Efforts are underway to refine the role of insulin resistance in NASH and determine whether improving insulin sensitivity pharmacologically is an effective treatment. An altered lifestyle may be a more effective means of improving insulin sensitivity. The research agenda for the future includes establishing the role of insulin resistance and abnormal lipoprotein metabolism in NASH, determining the pathogenesis of cellular injury, defining predisposing genetic abnormalities, identifying better noninvasive predictors of disease, and defining effective therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12717482
This study examined the effects of long term cholesterol lowering therapy with simvastatin on progression and regression of coronary atherosclerosis, as determined by quantitative angiographic end points, in subgroups of patients with known coronary risk factors. In this randomized, placebo controlled clinical trial, the effect of simvastatin on coronary atherosclerosis was compared with that of placebo in 394 patients who had paired coronary angiograms taken an average of four years apart. The effects of treatment on the following prespecified subgroups were examined: sex, age (less than 65 years versus at least 65 years), smoking status (current or previous/never), history of diabetes mellitus or hypertension, and severity of coronary artery lesions (diameter at least 50% versus less than 50%). There were significantly smaller decreases in the average minimum diameters, between closeout and baseline angiograms, in all simvastatin-treated subgroups, compared with placebo. Trends toward or significantly smaller decreases in the average of the mean diameters, and similar smaller increases in percentage diameter stenosis were also seen in all subgroups. The slowing of angiographically demonstrable coronary atherosclerotic narrowing supports the contention that this treatment effect is causally related to the reduction of coronary events repeatedly seen in large outcome clinical trials of lipid lowering therapy. Also, this treatment effect occurs in the presence or absence of the traditional coronary risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12719279
Despite the established efficacy of statins, many patients do not achieve recommended LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) goals. Contributing factors may be inadequate dosing, increased risk for adverse effects with high-dose monotherapy, and increased potential for intolerance and adverse effects with combinations of available agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12720487
In recent years, rapid growth in the understanding of the pathophysiology of chronic heart failure has allowed for insights into many potential new therapeutic strategies. Yet until now, despite sound biological basis for efficacy and success in early-Phase studies, novel agents have not stood up to the scrutiny of late-Phase clinical trials. Indeed, remarkably negative results have been observed for vasopeptidase inhibitors, endothelin receptor antagonists and agents which block immune activation. However, efficacy data from other novel agents are still awaited, including the selective aldosterone receptor antagonist eplerenone, arginine vasopressin inhibitors, erythropoietin and hydroxy-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors. Other classes of drugs which may enter clinical development include cardiac metabolic agents, matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors and advanced glycation end product antagonists. That the mortality and morbidity of patients with chronic heart failure remain unacceptably high makes the ongoing commitment to exploration of new drug therapies for the condition critical.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12720497
The recent Losartan Intervention For Endpoint Reduction in Hypertension (LIFE) study was conducted in patients with essential hypertension with electrocardiogram evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy. This showed that losartan compared to atenolol resulted in a significant reduction in the primary endpoint of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, as well as a greater reduction in electrocardiographically-defined left ventricular hypertrophy. Importantly, this was despite a mean blood pressure reduction which was similar in both groups. Furthermore, the atenolol arm was associated with higher incidence of newly diagnosed diabetics. The LIFE study has firmly confirmed a place for losartan (and other angiotensin receptor blockers) in the management of hypertension. Losartan has also been shown to be effective in diabetics and in patients with atrial fibrillation, as well as in left ventricular hypertrophy regression. This trial also raises the possibility that beta-blockers should perhaps not be used as first-line monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12722551
Inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase (statins) lower the level of circulating LDL-C by blocking the activity of HMG-CoA reductase. Their efficiency to prevent cardiovascular events was demonstrated in several clinical trials for primary and secondary prevention. However, subgroups analysis of trials together with experimental studies have increasingly documented that the beneficial effects of statins extend beyond the sole reduction in LDL-C. These effects include improvements of vasoreactivity, haemostasis and plaque stability, reduction of pro-inflammatory events such as a decrease in monocyte adhesion and infiltration, oxidation level and pericellular proteolysis. Possible repair of ischemic tissues through enhancement of mobilization of endothelial progenitor cells are also described, although more investigation are needed to clearly identify the role and safety of statins in angiogenesis. These pleiotropic effects are generally explained by the fact that statins inhibit the intracellular production of metabolites located downstream of mevalonate in the cholesterol pathway, such as isoprenoids (farnesyl pyrophosphate and geranylgeranylpyrophosphate). These hydrophobic metabolites allow the membrane anchorage of small G proteins (Ras and Rho) as well as the Gy subunit of heterotrimeric G proteins, a post-translational step that is critical in the regulation of G protein signaling activity. These drugs are therefore a valuable tool not only for the clinician but also for the biologist, allowing to investigate the regulation of gene expression that is controlled by the intracellular activity of membrane-anchored prenylated signaling proteins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12723464
To investigate the effect of orlistat on the pharmacokinetics of three highly lipophilic drugs (amiodarone, fluoxetine, and simvastatin), the authors performed double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized two-period crossover (for fluoxetine and simvastatin) or parallel (for amiodarone) studies in healthy volunteers ages 18 to 65 years of a body mass index between 18 and 30 kg/m2. During treatment with orlistat or matching placebo for 5 to 13 1/3 days, a single oral dose of highly lipophilic drug was administered, followed by obtaining serial blood samples for measuring plasma (for fluoxetine and simvastatin) or serum (for amiodarone) concentrations of the lipophilic drug and its active metabolite. Treatments were compared for the pharmacokinetic parameters AUC0-infinity, Cmax, tmax, and t 1/2 of highly lipophilic drugs and active metabolites. Analysis of variance was performed to assess the significance of the sequence effect and provide the variance estimate for the 90% confidence intervals. Subjects were also evaluated for adverse events, vital signs, and clinical and laboratory safety. The absorption of amiodarone (and active metabolite) was significantly reduced by approximately one-quarter using parameters of Cmax and AUC, while no inhibition of absorption was observed for fluoxetine and simvastatin as well as their active metabolites. There were no clinically significant differences in t 1/2 and tmax for all three drugs tested. Due to expected gastrointestinal adverse events known to occur with orlistat, there was a higher incidence of adverse events under regimen B (highly lipophilic drugs and orlistat) than under regimen A (highly lipophilic drugs and placebo). Other adverse events were sporadic and unremarkable. There were no clinically relevant changes in vital signs or laboratory values. In conclusion, except for amiodarone, there was no effect of orlistat on the pharmacokinetics of highly lipophilic drugs when these drugs were taken concomitantly with orlistat.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12725884
The study objective was to investigate a possible association between statin use and breast cancer (BRCA). An historical cohort design based on Saskatchewan's population health services databases was used. All eligible women with > or = 1 statin prescription from 1989 to mid-1997 and an age-sex-matched nonexposed group were followed up to 8.5 years (mean 4.2 years). Relative rates (RR) of BRCA were estimated and stratified by age, statin exposure time, and prior hormone use. Thirteen thousand five hundred ninety-two statin users and 53,880 nonexposed subjects were identified. Eight hundred seventy-nine incident BRCA cases were identified. Statins were not associated with BRCA risk in women < or = 55 years. Among subjects >55 years, the RR for BRCA was 1.15 (0.97, 1.37). Stratified analyses revealed increases in risk in short-term statin users and statin users with long-term hormone replacement therapy (HRT) exposure. More studies are needed to determine if short-term statin use and statin use with long-term HRT exposure increases postmenopausal BRCA risk. Published by Elsevier Science Inc.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12727001
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a common, inherited disorder that affects around one in 500 individuals in the heterozygous form. By the year 2001, more people in the US had FH than were infected by the human immunodeficiency virus. The disease is caused by mutations within the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene. FH is associated with elevated plasma LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, xanthomatosis, early onset of atherosclerosis and premature cardiac death. Patients with heterozygous FH commonly have plasma LDL-C levels that are two-fold higher than normal, while homozygotes have four- to five-fold elevations in plasma LDL-C. Although FH patients have a high risk of developing premature coronary heart disease (CHD), they remain underdiagnosed and undertreated. Early detection of FH is critical to prolonging the life of these patients. Once identified, patients with heterozygous FH can be placed on a diet and drug management program. As the most efficacious and well-tolerated agents, hydroxy methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) are usually the drugs of first choice; bile acid sequestrants, niacin, and occasionally fibrates may be used as supplemental agents. Statins may also provide a realistic option for the treatment of some FH homozygotes with genes that produce partially functional LDL receptors. However, a number of patients are still failing to reach treatment guidelines even with the most effective of the currently available statins. The development of new more efficacious statins or the use of new combination therapies such as statins with the cholesterol absorption inhibitor, ezetimibe may help to reduce the current problem of undertreatment in FH patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12727151
The prognosis after an acute myocardial infarction is worse for patients with diabetes mellitus than for those without. We investigated whether differences in the use of evidence-based treatment may contribute to the differences in 1-year survival in a large cohort of consecutive acute myocardial infarction patients with and without diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12727577
To determine the effects of aggressive lipid lowering on markers of ischemia, resistance vessel function, atherosclerotic burden, and symptom status in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12727581
Evidence suggests that statin therapy reduces the rate of cardiovascular events among patients with low lipid levels but elevated C-reactive protein levels. However, no cost-effectiveness analyses have been performed to assist in determining whether large-scale randomized trials are merited to test this hypothesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12728973
Hyperlipidemia is a major risk factor of cardiovascular diseases. We investigated the utilization ofantilipemic drugs at the outpatient sector within the National Health Insurance in Taiwan.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12729396
The identification of the minimum effective dose for both the primary and secondary endpoint under a priori importance ordering assumption is described. Stepwise testing procedures, which conditionally test each elementary hypotheses at level alpha, but control the experimentwise Type I error rate, can be used.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12732381
Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) affects approximately 1 in 500 people (10 million world-wide) and the elevated serum cholesterol concentrations lead to a more than 50% risk of fatal or non-fatal coronary heart disease by age 50 years in men and at least 30% in women aged 60 years. Based on a systematic literature search, we review the natural history of FH, describe the diagnostic criteria, and consider the effectiveness of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12732396
A 53G>A polymorphism identified in the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of the platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1) gene alters a putative shear stress responsive element (SSRE). PECAM-1 was shown to be responsive to shear stress and transient transfection of human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVECs) with two luciferase reporter constructs driven by the PECAM-1 promoter and 5'UTR showed a response of the 53G allele, not the 53A allele, to shear stress. Association between the 53G>A, and the previously published L125V polymorphism, and coronary atherosclerosis was examined in two angiographic studies. The frequencies of the rare alleles of the 53G>A and L125V polymorphisms were 0.01 and 0.49, respectively, in the Lopid Coronary Angiography Trial (LOCAT) study and 0.02 and 0.49, respectively, in the Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS) study. Compared with 53G homozygotes, carriers of the 53A allele showed less focal progression of disease in the LOCAT study and a similar trend in the diffuse progression of disease in the REGRESS study, whereas no association between L125V and coronary atherosclerosis was observed in either study. These data demonstrate that the PECAM-1 gene is responsive to shear stress in vitro and that decreased PECAM-1 gene expression in 53A carriers may influence reduced progression of vessel stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12732798
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12735230
Low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in plasma are an independent coronary risk factor. Therapies that lower cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) have preventative effects on aortic atherosclerosis in cholesterol-fed rabbits. CETP inhibitors are a new class of compounds that can increase HDL-C levels by up to 70%, according to data from phase I and II clinical trials. CETP inhibitors are therefore likely to be beneficial in patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia and HDL-C levels lower than 40 mg/dl. CETP inhibitors should, however, be viewed with caution as their effects on triglyceride metabolism are currently unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12735237
Eflucimibe is an acyl coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase inhibitor under development by Pierre Fabre SA and Eli Lilly & Co for the potential treatment of hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis. Phase II clinical trials commenced during 2002.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12739307
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is not a single disorder. Rather, it is a collection of disorders characterized by the progressive development of airflow limitation. Patients afflicted with COPD experience systemic effects that are often responsible for major clinical problems. Lesions with differing pathogenetic bases can contribute to airflow limitation, and these differing and overlapping pathogenetic mechanisms account for the heterogeneous clinical features of COPD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12740000
Colesevelam HCl (WelChol, Sankyo Pharmaceuticals Inc.) is a bile acid sequestrant polymer, which has been shown to significantly lower low density lipoprotein cholesterol and favourably affect high-density lipoprotein cholesterol blood levels in monotherapy and in combination with statins (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors). Although it is similar to other bile acid sequestrants in that it binds bile acids and is non-systemic, colesevelam HCl differs in that it has a unique polymer structure that allows for greater tolerability with less potential drug interactions than with resins. Currently, statins are the most commonly prescribed lipid-altering drugs. However, it is not uncommon that patients demonstrate true or perceived intolerances to statin therapy, that are often dose-related and may include elevations in liver or muscle enzyme blood levels, or myalgias or muscle weakness without muscle enzyme elevation. In rare circumstances, myopathy and even rhabdomyolysis can occur with statins. In addition, many statins also have important potential drug interactions. Finally, statin monotherapy is often not sufficient in achieving lipid treatment goals in many severely dyslipidaemic patients and the availability of colesevelam HCl provides a lipid-altering treatment addition to other lipid-altering drugs. From a clinical perspective, such combination therapy is often required to achieve treatment goals [1] in patients with more complicated or severe dyslipidaemia. Colesevelam HCl may also be an alternative in monotherapy for many patients with mild-to-moderate hypercholesterolaemia, as well as in some patients at potential risk from systemic exposure to alternative lipid-altering drugs (such as young children and fertile women).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12740551
Atherosclerosis is a systemic disease that can ultimately lead to ischaemia and infarction in the heart, brain and peripheral vasculature. According to the "response to injury" hypothesis, endothelial dysfunction is the early event that allows penetration of lipids and inflammatory cells into the arterial wall, contributing to the development of the atherosclerotic lesion. Endothelial dysfunction is causally related to a variety of risk factors for atherosclerosis, including hyperlipidaemia and hypertension. Agents that restore endothelial function and NO bioavailability have beneficial anti-atherogenic activities and can improve cardiovascular outcomes; this has been observed with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, statins and certain dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blockers (CCBs). In the Prospective Randomised Evaluation of the Vascular Effects of Norvasc Trial (PREVENT), the CCB amlodipine provided significant clinical benefits compared with placebo, including a marked reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and a reduction in the progression of carotid atherosclerosis. As these beneficial effects of amlodipine have not been observed with other dihydropyridine-type CCBs, it has been proposed that this agent has distinct anti-atherosclerotic properties related to its strong lipophilicity and membrane location. Experimental support for this hypothesis has been obtained from various in vitro and in vivo models of atherosclerosis. These findings support a broader therapeutic role for third-generation dihydropyridine-type CCBs in the treatment of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12740553
It is now clear that the management of hypercholesterolaemia is important for the reduction of morbidity and mortality caused by cerebrovascular and coronary events. The landmark Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study was the first to show conclusively that lipid-lowering therapy with statins reduces the incidence of stroke. Subsequent trials, undertaken in a variety of different patient populations, have confirmed that statin therapy reduces the incidence of stroke by approximately one-third. This important benefit has been observed in men and women, the young and the elderly, and also in subjects with diabetes mellitus. In the recent Heart Protection Study, which recruited "high-risk" vascular subjects, stroke risk reduction was demonstrated even among those subjects considered to have "low" low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels. The benefits of statin therapy in stroke have been attributed to reductions in cholesterol and to other non-lipid-lowering effects of statins. Ongoing clinical trials such as TNT (Treating to New Targets) and IDEAL (Incremental Decrease in Endpoints through Aggressive Lipid lowering) will test the "lower is better" hypothesis. Using statins to lower LDL cholesterol to levels that are below current guidelines will provide additional benefits in stroke risk reduction. Most of the data on cholesterol reduction and cerebrovascular events have been derived from studies of patients with documented coronary heart disease (CHD). The ongoing SPARCL (Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels) trial will examine the benefits of LDL cholesterol lowering in patients with previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA), but no history of coronary problems.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12740554
Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability and dependency in western society. Despite the determined efforts of basic science and clinical investigators, neuroprotective therapies for acute stroke have yet to be realised. Stroke prevention, therefore, remains the key route for reducing morbidity and mortality. Hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia are the most important modifiable risk factors for stroke. Several recent landmark studies have shown that lipid lowering with statins can reduce the risk of ischaemic stroke, as well as coronary heart disease. In addition, clinical trials evaluating the effects of blood pressure lowering have shown that antihypertensive agents such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, calcium channel blockers (CCBs) and angiotensin II receptor antagonists can reduce stroke risk. Accumulating evidence suggests certain antihypertensive agents such as CCBs might also prevent the formation and progression of carotid atheroma, independently of their blood-pressure-lowering effects. It follows that rigorous identification and targeting of high- risk or stroke-prone individuals for blood pressure and lipid-lowering interventions should be of practical importance to all physicians involved in the management of stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12741415
In recent years, vitamin E has been investigated as a cardioprotective agent. Experimental studies have identified potential mechanisms by which vitamin E may inhibit the development of atherosclerosis, and observational studies of individuals without coronary disease suggest that vitamin E intake may prevent future cardiovascular events. Secondary prevention trials to date have demonstrated little benefit from vitamin E supplementation. It remains possible, however, that supplementation may be useful among certain high-risk groups, including those with nutritional deficiencies. Limited data from completed primary prevention trials also indicate minimal cardioprotection from vitamin E, but large-scale trials now in progress may yet show benefit. Results from ongoing trials will contribute powerfully to the totality of evidence on which to formulate both appropriate clinical recommendations for individual patients and a rational public health policy for the population as a whole. At this time, there is insufficient evidence for issuing a public health recommendation to use vitamin E supplements to prevent cardiovascular disease (CVD). Rather, increased intake of fruits, vegetables, and other antioxidant-rich foods should be promoted as part of a healthy diet because they provide nutritional benefits beyond any potential antioxidant effect. Moreover, even if found to reduce CVD risk, vitamin supplement use should be considered an adjunct, not an alternative, to established cardioprotective measures, such as smoking abstention, avoidance of obesity, adequate physical activity, and control of high blood pressure and hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12741437
Updated guidelines from the National Cholesterol Education Program give greater emphasis to lipoproteins other than low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) than previous guidelines. Although statins remain first-line therapy for most patients to lower LDL, combination therapy is the next logical step in achieving goals in patients with mixed dyslipidemia or elevated LDL despite statin therapy. As the prevalence of diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and atherogenic dyslipidemia rises, the importance of treating the total lipid profile becomes even more crucial. Niacin, fibrates, and bile acid sequestrants are effective in combination with statins in lowering LDL, triglycerides, and total cholesterol levels and increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL). Although combination therapies may increase the risk of myopathy, both fibrate-statin and niacin-statin combinations are considered safe. In addition, niacin-statin therapy reduces atherosclerotic progression and coronary events. New pharmacologic formulations exist that will further affect treatment: a single-tablet combination of lovastatin and extended-release niacin is available, as is ezetimibe, a cholesterol-absorption inhibitor. In all, both HDL and triglyceride levels correlate with cardiovascular risk and should be considered secondary targets of therapy. Combination therapy can be safe and effective and can be constructed to affect all lipoprotein parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12742282
We sought to investigate whether the activation of the chemokine network observed in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) could be modified by treatment with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12742802
Previous studies examining the association of plasma cholesterol levels with the risk for development of Alzheimer disease (AD) have been inconclusive. We examined the impact of baseline and lifetime plasma total cholesterol levels averaged across many years on the risk for AD in a large, population-based cohort.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12742999
Atherosclerosis is increasingly considered to be a chronic inflammatory process. We examined whether genetic variants of the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), which are correlated with impaired innate immunity and with progression of carotid atherosclerosis, are also associated with coronary atherosclerosis and predict the risk of cardiovascular events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12743334
The endothelium regulates vascular homoeostasis through local elaboration of mediators that modulate vascular tone, platelet adhesion, inflammation, fibrinolysis, and vascular growth. Impaired vascular function contributes to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and acute coronary syndromes. There is growing pathophysiological evidence that increased generation of reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress participates in proatherogenic mechanisms of vascular dysfunction and atherothrombosis. In this review, the role of oxidative stress in mechanisms of vascular dysfunction is discussed, and potential antioxidant strategies are reviewed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12743640
Ezetimibe is the first of a new class of drugs that specifically reduces the intestinal absorption of cholesterol. The drug is absorbed into the intestinal epithelial cell and remains associated in great part with the apical cell membrane where it is believed to interfere with the putative sterol transporter system. This apparently prevents both free cholesterol and plant sterols (phytosterols) from being transported into the cell from the intestinal lumen. The mechanism is very different from the reduction produced by phytosterol esters and phytostanol esters that have been documented previously as interfering with the micellar presentation of sterols to the cell surface. The drug is rapidly absorbed and glucuronidated in the intestinal cell before secretion into the blood. Ezetimibe is avidly taken up by the liver from the portal blood and excreted into the bile, resulting in low peripheral blood concentrations. The glucuronide conjugate is hydrolyzed and absorbed and is equally effective in inhibiting sterol absorption. This enterohepatic recycling is responsible for a half-life in the body of more than 20 h. The principle medical benefit appears to be a reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc). There is also a reduction in the cholesterol content of chylomicrons, which may provide some reduction in the atherogenic potential of the plasma lipoprotein pool. Triglycerides fall moderately and a modest rise in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc) has been consistently observed in groups of treated patients. The maximum mean reduction of LDL cholesterol is approximately 20-25% in small studies at the maximal dose tested of 40 mg/day and the reduction is usually in the 16-20% range at the dosage of 10 mg/day. Most subsequent studies have been completed with the 10 mg/day dose. The medication is effective as a single daily dose due to its long residence time in the body. Combinations of ezetimibe with all available statins have been completed and demonstrate LDLc reductions of approximately 25% as additive effects to any statin dose alone. There are also small additional increases in HDL (2-3%) and reductions in triglycerides (10-15%). Additive effects to statin therapy have also been documented in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Reduction of plant sterols has been demonstrated in phytosterolemia, offering the first drug treatment for this rare inherited disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12745107
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12745113
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12745796
Women are a neglected group for cardiovascular disease. Whereas young women tend to have lower incidences of coronary artery disease, stroke and myocardial infarctions than men, the situation changes drastically at menopause, after which women are at greater risk than men. Despite this, women at all ages receive less treatment, less attention and not enough information about health risks. Most risk factors, e.g. hypertension, elevated blood lipid levels, diabetes and changes in oestrogen levels, differ between women and men. As a consequence of this, secondary prevention from coronary artery disease is likely to have different effects in women to those in men. Different kinds of antihypertensive therapy, hormone-replacement therapy and lipid-lowering treatment may be more or less suitable in women than in men. The recent development of angiotensin-receptor blockers may have beneficial effects which make them particularly effective in women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12746442
This study describes three novel homozygous missense mutations (S75R, S201Y, and D204N) in the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) lyase gene, which caused 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric aciduria in patients from Germany, England, and Argentina. Expression studies in Escherichia coli show that S75R and S201Y substitutions completely abolished the HMG-CoA lyase activity, whereas D204N reduced catalytic efficiency to 6.6% of the wild type. We also propose a three-dimensional model for human HMG-CoA lyase containing a (betaalpha)8 (TIM) barrel structure. The model is supported by the similarity with analogous TIM barrel structures of functionally related proteins, by the localization of catalytic amino acids at the active site, and by the coincidence between the shape of the substrate (HMG-CoA) and the predicted inner cavity. The three novel mutations explain the lack of HMG-CoA lyase activity on the basis of the proposed structure: in S75R and S201Y because the new amino acid residues occlude the substrate cavity, and in D204N because the mutation alters the electrochemical environment of the active site. We also report the localization of all missense mutations reported to date and show that these mutations are located in the beta-sheets around the substrate cavity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12746636
To evaluate in France in 2001 the therapeutic management and control of diabetes and of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors in patients with type 2 diabetes receiving specialist care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12748238
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12749507
Rosuvastatin and fenofibrate are lipid-regulating agents with different modes of action. Patients with dyslipidemia who have not achieved treatment targets with monotherapy may benefit from the combination of these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12752842
To determine whether income influences evidence-based medication use by older persons with diabetes mellitus in managed care who have the same prescription drug benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12753880
Nephrogenic fibrosing dermopathy is a newly recognized cutaneous fibrosing disorder marked by the acute onset of induration involving the upper and lower limbs in patients with acute or chronic renal failure. The etiology, pathogenesis, associated clinical conditions (other than renal failure), and ultimate course have not been defined in the few cases studied. Presently, there is no effective treatment, and the condition persists in most patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12754715
This paper discusses interim analysis for clinical trials where the primary endpoint is observed at a specific long-term follow-up time, but where repeated measures of the same outcome are also taken at earlier times. Methods are considered for improving the efficiency with which the long-term treatment difference is estimated, making use of information from shorter-term follow-up times. This approach to interim analysis has previously been studied for binary endpoints assessed at two time points during follow-up. Here we adapt and extend this methodology to include continuous endpoints assessed at an arbitrary number of follow-up times, making use of methods for analysing multivariate normal data subject to monotone missingness and unstructured mean and covariance relationships. The magnitude of efficiency gains obtained by using short-term measurements is considered, as well as how these gains depend on the number and timing of the short-term measurements. Sequential analysis of treatment differences is discussed, including the extent to which efficiency gains translate into reductions in the expected duration of a sequentially monitored trial. The methods are illustrated on a data set involving a placebo-controlled comparison of longitudinal cholesterol measurements.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12755126
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12756041
Renal transplant (Tx) recipients frequently develop hypercholesterolemia. Pravastatin (P) has been shown to be effective in adult renal Tx recipients, not only in reducing serum cholesterol, but possibly also in decreasing graft rejection. However, there are no data on the use of P in children following renal transplantation. We conducted a retrospective case-control study evaluating the safety and efficacy of P (10-20 mg/day) in reducing hypercholesterolemia, when used pre-emptively in the post-Tx period in seven children, compared with an historical control (C) group of nine children who had not received P. The two groups were comparable with respect to their demographics and in their pretransplant serum cholesterol. Compared with the C group, the mean serum cholesterol in the P group was lower at 3 months (159 mg/dL vs. 225 mg/dL), 6 months (134 mg/dL vs. 200 mg/dL), 9 months (134 mg/dL vs. 209 mg/dL), and 12 months (125 mg/dL vs. 195 mg/dL) (p < 0.005 for all, Student's two-tailed t-test). At 1 month only 43% of the P group had hypercholesterolemia compared with 67% of the controls; by 12 months this difference was even more significant (0% in the P group vs. 45% in the C group). None of the treated patients developed any adverse reactions. This study demonstrates that the pre-emptive use of P in pediatric renal Tx recipients appears to be effective in significantly reducing serum cholesterol. Whether this effect will translate into improved allograft and patient survival in the long term cannot be predicted at present and will require additional studies to evaluate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12756145
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12756147
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12756427
Although numerous second-generation isoprenylation inhibitors are proposed or under investigation for the treatment and/or prevention of cancer (eg, R115777, SCH 66336, L-778,123, BMS-214662), the chemotherapeutic and chemopreventive potential of commonly prescribed first-generation isoprenylation inhibitors, the statins, and other classes of lipid-lowering medications, the fibrates, has yet to be seriously explored. Two lipid-lowering medications, lovastatin and gemfibrozil, have been associated with a decreased incidence of melanoma in large, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical cardiology trials. This article reviews melanoma biology and the clinical evidence for the use of lipid-lowering medications for melanoma chemoprevention and/or adjuvant chemotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12756561
Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is a severe disorder of lipid metabolism associated with an enhanced risk to develop cardiovascular disease later in life, with atherosclerotic lesions beginning already in childhood. These are facts which make an early diagnosis and therapy necessary to prevent or delay such complications. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of low-dose simvastatin, a potent HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, in children and adolescents with FH. Therefore, 20 children and adolescents (12 females, 8 males) aged between 10 and 17 years with FH were recruited for this 1-year simvastatin study. According to baseline levels of low density lipoprotein (LDL)-C, girls and boys were divided into two groups, one group (with LDL-C <220 mg/dl) starting with a simvastatin dosage of 5 mg/day, the other (with LDL-C >220 mg/dl) 10 mg/day with the possibility to increase dosages up to a daily maximum of 20 mg, if not reaching LDL-C concentrations of <170 mg/dl within the first period. Every 4-8 weeks, weight, height, lipids, Lp(a) and routine safety parameters of all participants were determined by a paediatrician, documenting exactly all side-effects. The percentage decrease was 25% for LDL-C in the 5 mg simvastatin period (19% for total cholesterol (tChol)), 30% for LDL-C in the 10 mg period (26% for tChol) and 36% decrease for LDL-C in the 20 mg period (29% for tChol). The changes for high density lipoprotein (HDL)-C were -5.9% (5 mg), +2.9% (10 mg) and -10.9% (20 mg) the percentage decrease in triglycerides was 12.6% (5 mg), 14.3% (10 mg) and 21% (20 mg). The side-effects of simvastatin were of no clinical relevance and all disappeared after a couple of days.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12756679
As the population ages, increasing numbers of older adults are becoming candidates for lipid-lowering therapy with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) and lifestyle modification. Available evidence shows that statins reduce cardiovascular events and invasive revascularization in older adults. Statins have not only been shown to be safe and effective for lowering LDL cholesterol, but appear to have ancillary pleiotropic effects that are beneficial in other conditions to which older adults are prone. Despite these benefits, older adults are currently undertreated for this highly treatable cardiovascular risk factor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12761259
Atheroembolic renal disease (AERD) is part of a multisystemic disease accompanied by high cardiovascular comorbidity and mortality. Interrelationships between traditional risk factors for atherosclerosis, vascular comorbidities, precipitating factors, and markers of clinical severity of the disease in determining outcome remain poorly understood. Patients with AERD presenting to a single center between 1996 and 2002 were followed-up with prospective collection of clinical and biochemical data. The major outcomes included end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and death. Ninety-five patients were identified (81 male). AERD was iatrogenic in 87%. Mean age was 71.4 yr. Twenty-three patients (24%) developed ESRD; 36 patients (37.9%) died. Cox regression analysis showed that significant independent predictors of ESRD were long-standing hypertension (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.1; P < 0.001) and preexisting chronic renal impairment (HR = 2.12; P = 0.02); use of statins was independently associated with decreased risk of ESRD (HR = 0.02; P = 0.003). Age (HR = 1.09; P = 0.009), diabetes (HR = 2.55; P = 0.034), and ESRD (HR = 2.21; P = 0.029) were independent risk factors for patient mortality; male gender was independently associated with decreased risk of death (HR = 0.27; P = 0.007). Cardiovascular comorbidities, precipitating factors, and clinical severity of AERD had no prognostic impact on renal and patient survival. It is concluded that AERD has a strong clinical impact on patient and renal survival. The study clearly shows the importance of preexisting chronic renal impairment in determining both renal and patient outcome, this latter being mediated by the development of ESRD. The protective effect of statins on the development of ESRD should be evaluated in a prospective study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12761262
Limited data suggest that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) may slow loss of renal function in individuals with chronic renal insufficiency. This study was conducted to determine whether pravastatin reduced rates of loss of renal function in people with moderate chronic renal insufficiency. This was a post hoc subgroup analysis of a randomized double-blind placebo controlled trial. Data were analyzed from the CARE study (a randomized trial of pravastatin versus placebo in 4159 participants with previous myocardial infarction and total plasma cholesterol < 240 mg/dl). Participants with estimated GFR (MDRD-GFR) < 60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) body surface area at baseline were considered to have moderate chronic renal insufficiency. Multivariate regression was used to calculate rates of decline in MDRD-GFR for individuals receiving pravastatin and placebo, controlling for prospectively determined covariates that might influence rates of renal function loss. Change in renal function could be calculated in 3384 individuals, of whom 690 (20.4%) had MDRD-GFR < 60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) and were eligible for inclusion. Among all individuals with MDRD-GFR < 60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)), the MDRD-GFR decline in the pravastatin group was not significantly different from that in the placebo group (0.1 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)/yr slower; 95% CI, -0.2 to 0.4; P = 0.49). However, there was a significant stepwise inverse relation between MDRD-GFR before treatment and slowing of renal function loss with pravastatin use, with more benefit in those with lower MDRD-GFR at baseline (P = 0.04). Rate of change in MDRD-GFR in the pravastatin group was 0.6 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)/yr slower than placebo (95% CI, -0.1 to 1.2; P = 0.07) in those with MDRD-GFR < 50 ml/min, and 2.5 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)/yr slower (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.6 slower; P = 0.0001) in those with MDRD-GFR < 40 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)/yr. Pravastatin also reduced rates of renal loss to a greater extent in participants with than without proteinuria at baseline (P = 0.006). It is concluded that pravastatin may slow renal function loss in individuals with moderate to severe kidney disease, especially those with proteinuria. These findings require confirmation by a large randomized trial conducted specifically in people with chronic renal insufficiency.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12763512
Post-menopausal osteoporosis is characterized by increased fracture risk due to deficiencies in both the quantity and quality of bone. Assessing fracture risk involves combining clinical risk factors, including fall risks, with bone density testing. Treatment strategies are aimed at reducing fracture risk. General nutritional and lifestyle measures are appropriate for all women. Drug treatment is most clearly indicated in post-menopausal women at high current fracture risk. Treatment should also be considered for women at intermediate fracture risk, including those who have both low bone density and other risk factors for fracture. Whether there is practical clinical value in treating low-risk patients is much less clear. Non-pharmacological approaches addressing the consequences of fractures are integral parts of a comprehensive treatment programme. Reducing both the frequency and the effects of falls complements the efforts of treating osteoporosis to reduce the incidence of fractures and their important clinical consequences.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12763513
Historically, research into vascular effects of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) poignantly highlights the difficulties in extrapolating from medical research into clinical practice. Original observational trials encouraged great enthusiasm that HRT was protective against coronary heart disease (CHD) in post-menopausal women. This was supported by a plethora of beneficial mechanistic effects of HRT on the vascular system. In contrast, recent controlled trials have shown that a specific combined oral HRT actually causes a small increased risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, compared to placebo. The absolute risks were small, yet were accompanied by increased venous thrombosis and breast cancer. Although many controversies still remain regarding the vascular effects of specific types of HRT, currently, in my opinion, all HRT should be considered as causing a small increased risk of vascular events, until proven otherwise. However, the apparent lack of HRT effectiveness in the prevention of vascular disease should not deter enthusiasm for the use of established preventive therapies, especially lifestyle measures.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12763516
From the introduction of post-menopausal hormone replacement therapy (HRT) there has been great concern that HRT could possibly increase the risk of breast cancer. Prolonged exposure to endogenous oestrogens undeniably increases the risk of breast cancer. Questions that are important and until now only partly answered, are the following. Are oestrogens tumour promoters, as they induce mitosis, lead to proliferation and, therefore, accelerated growth of clinically occult pre-existing tumours? In addition to this, are they genotoxic mutagenic carcinogens, or could they initiate tumours by way of accumulation of incessant DNA-replication damage mechanism? Opinions vary as to the effect of the addition of a progestogen. There is a multitude of different progestogens which could bind with differing affinity to progesterone receptor PR-A or PR-B, and which have different physiological functions via differential gene regulation. The action of a progestogen on the oestrogen-induced cellular mitotic activity could be synergistic or antagonistic (by different pathways: oestrogen receptor downregulation, activating of metabolic pathways within the breast or stimulation of apoptosis)? Over 60 observational studies and two randomized trials provide evidence that the small but significant increase in risk appears with long-term current post-menopausal hormone use. The addition of a progestogen does not decrease the risk as seen with oestrogens alone and might increase the risk further. It is not clear whether there is a difference in risk with sequentially combined versus continuously combined HRT. Many questions nevertheless still remain. Is the risk increase limited to lean women only? What about risk-modifying factors such as alcohol use and a positive family history for breast cancer? Are tumours detected under HRT less aggressive, is there a better prognosis and is the mortality not increased while morbidity is? And is HRT contraindicated for women with a positive family history for breast cancer or in those women who have been treated for breast cancer? And finally, are there alternative options for these women?

Abstract for pubmed ID 12763518
Convincing data from randomized trials and observational studies have demonstrated a two- to threefold increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) with the use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in post-menopausal women. This risk is highest in the first year of use, but an increased risk persists after the first year if HRT use is ongoing. The risk of VTE is increased for oral oestrogen alone, oral oestrogen combined with progestin and probably for transdermal HRT. There is an increase in both idiopathic and non-idiopathic VTE with HRT. Early evidence suggests an interaction of HRT with thrombophilic states such as the factor V Leiden mutation, resulting in a synergistic increase in the risk of VTE. There is also an increased risk of VTE with raloxifene and tamoxifen, but the effects of low-dose HRT and tibolone on VTE risk are less clear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12765509
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12767421
Patients with combined hyperlipidemia and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels may benefit from combination therapy with a statin and niacin; therefore, we assessed the efficacy and safety of rosuvastatin and extended-release (ER) niacin alone and in combination in 270 patients with this atherogenic dyslipidemia. Men and women > or =18 years with fasting total cholesterol levels > or =200 mg/dl, triglycerides 200 to 800 mg/dl, apolipoprotein B > or cf=110 mg/dl, and HDL cholesterol <45 mg/dl were randomized to 1 of 4 treatments in this 24-week, open-label, multicenter trial: rosuvastatin 10 to 40 mg; ER niacin 0.5 to 2 g; rosuvastatin 40 mg/ER niacin 0.5 to 1 g; or rosuvastatin 10 mg/ER niacin 0.5 to 2 g. Percent changes from baseline in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol, and other lipid measurements at week 24 were determined by analysis of variance, with statistical testing performed separately between the rosuvastatin monotherapy group and each remaining treatment group. Daily doses of rosuvastatin 40 mg reduced LDL and non-HDL cholesterol significantly more than either ER niacin 2 g or rosuvastatin 10 mg/ER niacin 2 g (-48% vs -0.1% and -36% for LDL cholesterol and -49% vs -11% and -38% for non-HDL cholesterol, respectively; p <0.01 for all comparisons); no additional reduction in LDL or non-HDL cholesterol was observed with the combination of rosuvastatin 40 mg/ER niacin 1.0 g (-42% and -47%; p = NS). Triglyceride reductions ranged from -21% (ER niacin monotherapy) to -39% (rosuvastatin 40 mg/ER niacin 1 g), but no observed differences were statistically significant. Compared with rosuvastatin alone, rosuvastatin 10 mg/ER niacin 2 g produced significantly greater increases in HDL cholesterol (11% vs 24%, p <0.001) and apolipoprotein A-I (5% vs 11%, p <0.017). Similar increases in HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I were noted between the monotherapy groups. Over 24 weeks, rosuvastatin alone was better tolerated than either ER niacin alone or the combinations of rosuvastatin and ER niacin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12767434
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12767534
The incidence of diabetes has reached epidemic proportions across the world. In patients with diabetes, there is a two to four times increased risk of developing coronary artery disease (CAD). Diabetes seems to eliminate the protective benefits of hormones in women against CAD. Patients with type II diabetes also have hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity, endothelial dysfunction and prothrombotic factors, called 'the metabolic syndrome'. Not only the incidence of CAD is higher in diabetes, the mortality of the diabetic patients after a cardiac event is significantly increased as compared to non-diabetics, including sudden death. Although in the past 35 years there has been a decline in the rate of death due to CAD in the general population, this has not been seen among patients with diabetes. Primary prevention can play an important role in decreasing the incidence of CAD in diabetic patients. Aggressive treatment of hyperlipidemia and hypertension is essential. Recent knowledge about the protective effects of aspirin, statins, angiotension converting enzyme inhibitors, and glitazones in the diabetic patients, if used appropriately will go a long way in primary and secondary prevention of CAD in patients with diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12767951
The renin-angiotensin system plays a central role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. At the molecular and cellular levels, angiotensin II, the main effector peptide of the system, stimulates key components of atherosclerosis. Trials in animals and humans indicate that blocking renin-angiotensin system pathways decreases atherosclerotic plaque progression and ischemic events. This review provides a broad overview of the entire role of the renin-angiotensin system in atherothrombotic disease, ranging from molecular pathways to human genetics to the latest clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12768071
Cardiovascular disease as a result of accelerated atherogenesis is common in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Dyslipidemia may be a major contributor in this process and can be influenced by lipid-lowering drugs (statins). Moreover, statins may exhibit additional inhibitory effects on the atherogenesis, such as a modulation of the immune system as triggered by oxidatively modified LDL and a reduction of the inflammatory marker C-reactive protein (CRP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12771114
The Women's Health Initiative (WHI) trial of estrogen plus progestin was stopped early because of adverse effects, including an increased risk of stroke in the estrogen plus progestin group.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12773075
To review the primary literature describing the pharmacology of ezetimibe and clinical trials investigating its use in the management of hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12773078
To review the chemistry, pharmacology, efficacy, and safety of trivalent chromium in the treatment of type 2 diabetes and hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12775947
Statins are best-known for their lipid-lowering effects and have been shown to significantly impact the natural progression of coronary atherosclerosis. The mechanism through which they exert this effect is thought to be primarily due to their ability to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. However, there is increasing evidence that statins exert a myriad of other beneficial effects on the vascular wall, thus altering the course of atherosclerotic disease. This article will review the prevention trial literature as it pertains to the effects of statin therapy on atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12775948
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors are now the standard of care for patients with hypercholesterolaemia. This class of inhibitors, known as 'statins', has been shown to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Accumulating data demonstrates a variety of mechanisms in which HMG-CoA reductase inhibition benefits the cardiovascular system. This review will discuss the pharmacology, clinical trials, and mechanisms, besides lipid lowering, of statin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12775949
Atherosclerosis has many features of a chronic inflammatory disease. Atherosclerotic lesions contain inflammatory cells. Systemic markers of inflammation, such as white blood cells, C-reactive protein, serum amyloid A, interleukin-6, and soluble adhesion molecules are predictive of future cardiovascular events. Atherogenic lipoprotein particles, in particular modified low-density lipoproteins (LDL), elicit pro-inflammatory responses of cellular elements of the vessel wall, including endothelial dysfunction and activation of monocyte-derived macrophages. High-density lipoproteins (HDL) oppose these effects by inhibiting the oxidation of LDL, and by down-regulating the expression of adhesion molecules and selectins. Treatment with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) has proven the most successful strategy to reduce the concentration of LDL in the circulation. These compounds lower LDL cholesterol by inhibiting the mevalonate pathway in the liver. Prospective clinical trials have convincingly demonstrated that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors can effectively lower the incidence of cardiovascular events in primary and secondary prevention. Post hoc analyses of these trials suggest that the clinical benefit brought about by statins may not entirely be due to their effect on the levels of circulating lipoproteins. In vitro observations of anti-inflammatory actions of statins on vascular cells may contribute to explain effects beyond lipid lowering. It is, however, not clear whether these findings are relevant to the in vivo situation. Further investigation is now necessary in order to determine the relative significance of cholesterol lowering and of ancillary effects on the net clinical benefit of statin treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12777316
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783420
We demonstrate that the 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors atorvastatin and simvastatin enhance functional outcome and induce brain plasticity when administered after stroke to rats. With atorvastatin treatment initiated 1 day after stroke, animals exhibited significant increases in vascular endothelial growth factor, cyclic guanosine monophosphate, angiogenesis, endogenous cell proliferation and neurogenesis, and an increase in the synaptic protein, synaptophysin. Atorvastatin-induced angiogenesis in a tube formation assay was reduced by an antibody against the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (FIK-1) and by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N-mono-methyl-L-arginine (L-NAME). Atorvastatin also induced phosphorylation of Akt and Erk in cultured primary cortical neurons. These data indicate that atorvastatin induced brain plasticity and has neurorestorative activity after experimental stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783592
Imatinib mesylate (Gleevec, Glivec), formerly STI571; Novartis Pharmaceuticals) is an inhibitor of the Bcr-abl tyrosine kinase that is central to the pathogenesis of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). The remarkable results of imatinib mesylate in clinical trials have rapidly and profoundly changed the management of patients with CML. This article will review the development of this molecularly targeted agent. The clinical trials with imatinib mesylate will be summarised along with the pharmacology of this agent. Despite the impressive responses seen in chronic-phase patients, numerous questions remain. For example, how durable will responses to imatinib mesylate be and is it necessary or possible to improve upon these results? Ongoing efforts to address these issues will be discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783629
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12783634
Women are underrepresented in clinical trials. Lower doses of beta-blockers are required for Southeast Asians. ACE and ARB's are teratogenic in the second trimester. Torsades de Pointes is more common in women related to a longer QT-interval. Lower dose OCPs decrease the risk of MI, stroke and thrombosis. HRTs are not effective for CAD prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12789600
An elevated level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is an independent risk factor for premature coronary heart disease (CHD), with a value of > or = 160 mg/dl designated as high-risk by the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panels I, II and III. Current goals of therapy for all patients with elevated LDL-C include reducing levels to: (i) < 160 mg/dl in those with < or = 1 CHD risk factor; (ii) < 130 mg/dl in those with more than or equal to 2 CHD risk factors; and (iii) < 100 mg/dl in patients with established CHD or CHD risk equivalents, one of which is diabetes. The discovery of drugs that inhibit 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR), the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, constituted a major advance in the treatment of patients with elevated plasma concentrations of LDL-C. The efficacy of statins in LDL-lowering and CHD risk reduction has clearly been demonstrated in a number of primary and secondary intervention trials. Emerging options for the treatment of patients with elevated LDL-C include the super-statins rosuvastatin and pitavastatin, as well as the cholesterol absorption inhibitor ezetimibe. This article reviews large-scale clinical trials in which statins have been used to reduce LDL-C concentrations. Studies that have examined the efficacy and safety of rosuvastatin, pitavastatin and ezetimibe will also be discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12789870
The efficacy and safety profiles of various forms of niacin for treating dyslipidemia are described. Niacin is well recognized for treating dyslipidemia in adults and has been shown to be effective in reducing coronary events. It has a broad range of effects on serum lipids and lipoproteins, including lowering total cholesterol, low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides. Niacin is the most effective lipid-modifying drug for raising high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels and has been shown to lower Lp(a) lipoprotein. Niacin reduces triglycerides and very-low-density-lipoprotein and LDL cholesterol synthesis, primarily by decreasing fatty acid mobilization from adipose tissue. Niacin appears to raise HDL cholesterol by reducing hepatic apolipoprotein A-l clearance and enhancing reverse cholesterol transport. Niacin is metabolized through a conjugation or nicotinamide pathway. Standard immediate-release niacin is metabolized primarily through the conjugation pathway, which results in a high frequency of flushing. Long-acting niacin is metabolized through the nicotinamide pathway, which results in less flushing but increases the risk of hepatotoxicity. Extended-release niacin has a more balanced metabolism and causes fewer of both types of adverse effects. Improved serum lipid levels during niacin therapy have been associated with clinical and angiographic evidence of reduced coronary artery disease, especially when combined with statins. Niacin is particularly useful for managing high triglyceride and low HDL cholesterol levels as well as the lipid abnormalities associated with metabolic syndrome, including those commonly encountered in patients with diabetes. Several niacin products are available with significant differences in their safety and efficacy profiles. Health care providers must consider the differences between agents when recommending niacin for dyslipidemia treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12791748
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12792664
To assess the oxidative burden of a highly concentrated compound of n-3 PUFAs as compared to corn oil by measuring thiobarbituric acid-malondialdehyde complex (TBA-MDA) by HPLC. We also studied the influence on TBA-MDA of statins combined with n-3 PUFAs or corn oil.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12793598
Several landmark clinical trials have demonstrated the benefit of lipid-lowering with statins for the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. The clinical data in support of lowering cholesterol by statins are unequivocal. The established mechanism of action is via sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) activation due to reduced hepatic cholesterol synthesis and secondary upregulation of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor, leading to enhanced clearance of circulating cholesterol and lipids. Although it is widely accepted that most clinical benefit obtained with statins is a direct result of their lipid-lowering properties, there is still some debate as to whether the so-called 'pleiotropic effects' of statins contribute to the clinical outcome in vascular disease, or whether all the beneficial effects of statins are simply due to lipid-lowering. For example, these agents appear to display additional cholesterol-independent effects on various aspects of cardiovascular disease, including improving endothelial function, decreasing vascular inflammation and enhancing plaque stability. Thus, further studies are needed to understand the full impact of statin therapy on each of these processes and whether these effects contribute to the clinical benefits of statins in acute coronary syndromes and stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12793855
The statins reduce cholesterol synthesis through inhibition of HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA) reductase and are widely prescribed for hyperlipidaemia to reduce the risk of atherosclerotic complications. The beneficial effect of lipid lowering by statins in the treatment of coronary heart disease has been demonstrated in large clinical trials. However, statins appear to have additional benefits on vascular function above and beyond their lipid lowering effects. Through inhibition of L-mevalonate synthesis, statins also prevent the synthesis of isoprenoid intermediates, including farnesylpyrophosphate and geranylgeranylpyrophosphate. Isoprenylation is important in the post-translational modification of a variety of proteins, including the small GTPases Rho, Rac and Ras, and hence plays an integral role in cellular signalling. Moreover, interference with isoprenylation underlies many of the beneficial actions of the statins on vascular endothelium, which include increased endothelial nitric oxide synthase expression, pro-angiogenic effects, increased fibrinolytic activity, immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory actions, including increased resistance to complement. This has led to interest in the use of this class of drugs outside the realm of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12796749
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12796760
Comparing the dose-response of a new drug to that of a previously studied drug can aid in understanding their relative potencies. Two dose-finding studies addressed the effect of a new drug, rosuvastatin, on its ability to decrease low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. One of these studies included 2 doses of atorvastatin, and substantial additional information is available in the literature about the effect of atorvastatin on LDL-C level lowering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12797474
Hypercholesterolemia is linked to endothelial dysfunction and enhancement of the endogenous inhibitor of NO synthase. The statins have lipid-lowering and pleiotropic properties, which could exert protective effects on the endothelium in hypercholesterolemia. The association of L-arginine with simvastatin could promote a further improvement on endothelial function in this condition. Thus, we investigated whether simvastatin, with or without supplementation with L-arginine, could improve endothelium-dependent vasodilation. In this study, 25 hypercholesterolemic subjects were treated according to the following protocol: washout period of 1 month; simvastatin (20 mg/day) for 2 months; simvastatin (20 mg/day) + L-arginine (7 g/day) for 2 months. From these patients, 10 were chosen at random for evaluation of vascular function by high resolution ultrasonography of the brachial artery. In subjects treated with simvastatin plus L-arginine, an increase of L-arginine levels (68%) and L-arginine/asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) ratio (67%) were observed. Simvastatin reduced the plasma concentrations of NO metabolites nitrite + nitrate (NOx: 34%), S-nitrosothiols (RSNO: 42%), total cholesterol (25%), low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (36%) and the LDL-cholesterol/high density lipoprotein (HDL-cholesterol ratio (34%). Simvastatin, associated or not to L-arginine, did not affect ADMA levels and endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Our data showed that simvastatin reduced the plasma concentrations of NOx and RSNO without affecting either the levels of ADMA or endothelium-dependent vasodilation in hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12798444
Proteoheparan sulfate can be adsorbed onto a methylated silica surface in a monomolecular layer via its transmembrane hydrophobic protein core domain. Due to electrostatic repulsion, its anionic glycosaminoglycan side chains are stretched out into the blood substitute solution, thereby representing a receptor site for specific lipoprotein binding through basic amino acid-rich residues within their apolipoproteins. The binding process was studied by ellipsometric techniques suggesting that HDL has a high binding affinity and a protective effect on interfacial heparan sulfate proteoglycan layers with respect to LDL and Ca(2+) complexation. LDL was found to be deposited strongly at the proteoheparan sulfate-coated surface, particularly in the presence of Ca(2+), apparently through complex formation 'proteoglycan-low density lipoprotein-calcium'. This ternary complex build-up may be interpreted as arteriosclerotic nanoplaque formation on the molecular level responsible for the arteriosclerotic primary lesion. In a receptor-based biosensor application, this system was tested on its reliability to unveil possible acute pleiotropic effects of the lipid lowering drug fluvastatin. The VLDL/IDL/LDL and VLDL/IDL/LDL/HDL plasma fractions from a high risk patient with dyslipoproteinaemia and type 2 diabetes mellitus showed the start of arteriosclerotic nanoplaque formation at a normal blood Ca(2+) concentration, with a strong increase at higher Ca(2+) concentrations. Nanoplaque formation and size of the HDL-containing lipid fraction remained well below that of the LDL-containing lipid fraction. Fluvastatin, whether applied acutely to the patient (one single 80 mg slow release matrix tablet) or in a 2-month medication regimen, markedly slowed down this process of ternary aggregational nanoplaque build-up and substantially inhibited nanoplaque size development at all Ca(2+) concentrations used. The acute action gave no significant change in lipid concentrations of the patient. Furthermore, after nanoplaque generation, fluvastatin, similar to HDL, was able to reduce nanoplaque formation and size. These immediate effects of fluvastatin have to be taken into consideration when interpreting the clinical outcome of long-term studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12798569
We sought to evaluate the association between cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) genotypes and the risk of future cardiovascular mortality in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12798570
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12798839
The American College of Cardiology provided much useful new information to inform those who care for patients with heart failure about what they should and should not adopt into current clinical practice. The EPHESUS trial suggests a much wider role for aldosterone antagonists for the management of heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction. SPORTIF-III indicates we may have a safer, simpler warfarin substitute soon. ASCOT reinforces the potential futility of statin therapy unless it is well targeted. The results of the COMPANION study investigating cardiac resynchronisation devices and implantable defibrillators were encouraging but inconclusive and/or hard to interpret. UK-PACE again questions the use of dual chamber pacing. T-wave alternans is an interesting experimental technique that may be useful in selecting which patients need an implantable defibrillator, although the technology needs testing in an appropriate patient population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12800452
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12800463
Fatty acids are an important source of energy which can have an influence on serum lipids. Omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, both polyunsaturated fatty acids, have been advocated as replacement for saturated fat. Omega-3 fatty acids, derived from fish and certain green plants, lower serum triglycerides, but they have also been shown to have a direct effect on myocardial contractility, blood pressure, platelet function, coagulation factors, cell-mediated immunity and markers of inflammation. Recently available clinical trial data, including those using the concentrated omega-3 fatty acid preparation Omacor, indicate that omega-3 fatty acids are valuable in preventing sudden death following myocardial infarction. Studies indicate that omega-3 fatty acids are just as effective as, or have a benefit superior to, statins in secondary prevention. Omacor is also useful in the treatment of hypertriglyceridaemia, both as monotherapy and in combination with statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12800468
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12800478
Cardiovascular (CV) complications are by far the most prevalent in patients with type 2 diabetes and the principal cause of mortality. Renal complications of type 1 diabetes were the principal cause of death. However, with the advent of dialysis and renal transplantation and because of further increases caused by such management techniques on the already accelerated atherosclerosis of type 1 diabetes patients, CV complications have now become the principal cause of morbidity and mortality. For successful prevention of CV complications in diabetes, clinicians should therefore pay particular attention to the means of attaining goals for the management of established traditional as well as nontraditional CV risk factors. For the most part, such management has been proven to reduce CV events in patients with diabetes, particularly type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12801602
The concentration of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) has been found consistently to be a powerful negative predictor of premature coronary heart disease (CHD) in human prospective population studies. There is also circumstantial evidence from human intervention studies and direct evidence from animal intervention studies that HDLs protect against the development of atherosclerosis. HDLs have several documented functions, although the precise mechanism by which they prevent atherosclerosis remains uncertain. Nor is it known whether the cardioprotective properties of HDL are specific to one or more of the many HDL subpopulations that comprise the HDL fraction in human plasma. Several lifestyle and pharmacological interventions have the capacity to raise the level of HDL-C, although it is not known whether all are equally protective. Indeed, despite the large body of information identifying HDLs as potential therapeutic targets for the prevention of atherosclerosis, there remain many unanswered questions that must be addressed as a matter of urgency before embarking wholesale on HDL-C-raising therapies as strategies to prevent CHD. This review summarises what is known and highlights what we still need to know.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12801612
Statins decrease cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, essentially, by reducing LDL-cholesterol levels and, additionally, by increasing HDL-cholesterol concentrations. Environmental and genetic factors are known to affect LDL-C response to statins but less is known regarding HDL-C. We have evaluated the lipid and lipoprotein response to 20 mg/day of pravastatin for 16 weeks in relation to the G/A polymorphism in the promoter region of the apo A-I gene in 397 hypercholesterolaemic subjects followed-up on an out-patient basis. In the study population, 61.7% were homozygous for the G allele and 36% were heterozygous. The A allele carriers had an HDL-C 6.5% higher than the G allele homozygotes (P=0.021 in univariate analysis; P=0.009 in multivariate analysis). However, on segregation by gender and smoking status the effect was significant only in non-smoking males. The A allele carriers did not increase their HDL-C concentrations after treatment (-0.3, 95%CI -3.3 to 2.7%) while G allele homozygotes had a 4.9% increase (95%CI 2.5-7.3%). Differences in the response between both groups were significant before (P=0.008) and after adjustment for confounding variables such as age and baseline HDL-C concentration (P=0.046). We conclude that the G/A polymorphism of the apo A-I promoter region affects not only baseline HDL-C concentrations but also its response to pravastatin treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12801618
We assumed that assaying serum cholesterol precursors (synthesis markers) and plant sterols and cholestanol (absorption markers of cholesterol) reveals differences in cholesterol synthesis and absorption in the Finnish 4S subgroup divided in high triglyceride-low HDL cholesterol (lipid triad=HTG) and isolated high LDL cholesterol (ILDL) groups. Serum squalene and non-cholesterol sterol ratios to cholesterol were measured with gas-liquid chromatography at baseline, 6 weeks, 1 year, and 5 years on simvastatin. Patients with HTG (n=135) exhibited features of metabolic syndrome and, in spite of similar serum total and LDL cholesterol levels, ratios of synthesis markers were higher and those of absorption markers lower than in ILDL (n=133). The latter patients accumulated to a subgroup shown earlier to be clinical non-responders to simvastatin in 4S. Serum cholesterol reduction by simvastatin only tended to be higher in HTG than ILDL. The synthesis marker ratios were markedly reduced, and more effectively in HTG than ILDL, while the absorption marker ratios were increased, and for plant sterols more in ILDL than HTG. In conclusion, HTG is associated with high synthesis and low absorption of cholesterol, these events being opposite in ILDL. Synthesis is more effectively reduced by simvastatin in HTG than ILDL in spite of similar reduction in serum cholesterol. Patients defined by highest baseline absorption marker ratios in ILDL group are poor coronary event-reducers on regular simvastatin treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12801620
Remnant lipoproteins are known to promote atherosclerosis especially in patients with type III hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP). In the current study, the effects of atorvastatin were investigated with special reference to the exogenous and endogenous apolipoprotein (apo) B-containing lipoprotein metabolism in type III HLP. Four Japanese male patients with type III HLP associated with homozygous apoE2 were studied. One-month administration of atorvastatin (20 mg once daily), after a 4-week dietary run-in, strikingly reduced serum total cholesterol and triglyceride (TG) levels by 52 (P<0.01) and 56% (P<0.05), respectively. Atorvastatin further decreased remnant-like particle (RLP)-cholesterol by 73% and RLP-TG by 65% (P<0.05), respectively. Distribution analysis by polyacrylamide gel disc electrophoresis clearly showed that atorvastatin diminished very low-, intermediate- and low-density lipoprotein particles. The relative particle diameter of intermediate-density lipoprotein became smaller after atorvastatin treatment (P<0.01). Furthermore, ultracentrifugal analysis demonstrated that atorvastatin significantly decreased cholesterol, TG and phospholipid concentrations in all apoB-containing lipoprotein fractions and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)-cholesterol/serum TG ratio (P<0.05), implying atorvastatin-induced reduction of beta-VLDL. Finally, newly developed assays of apoB-48 and apoB-100 revealed that atorvastatin markedly reduced these apolipoproteins by 43 and 52%, respectively (P<0.01), suggesting that atorvastatin decreased the number of both exogenous and endogenous apoB-containing lipoproteins. Taken together, atorvastatin improves remnant lipoprotein metabolism in type III HLP both in quality and in quantity. Atorvastatin can be one of the optimal options for the treatment of patients with type III HLP.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12801625
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12802815
Because of the potential for large variability among countries in the utilization and cost of health care resources, it is important to assess the appropriateness of combining economic data across the countries in a multinational clinical economic trial. We show how available tests for interaction can be applied to economic endpoints, including cost-effectiveness ratios and net health benefits. This analysis includes a characterization of possible interactions being quantitative or qualitative in nature. In the absence of interaction, a pooled estimate of the economic endpoint should be representative of the participating countries. We explore the analytic issues by further analysing data from the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12802842
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12804701
The 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, more commonly known as statins, are a class of drug widely used for the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia in patients with established cardiovascular disease as well as those at high risk of developing atherosclerosis. Their predominant action is to reduce circulating levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol; to a smaller degree, they also increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and reduce triglyceride concentrations. In recent years, however, there has been an increasing body of evidence that their effects on lipid profile cannot fully account for their cardiovascular protective actions: their beneficial effects are too rapid to be easily explained by their relatively slow effects on atherogenesis and too large to be accounted for by their relatively small effects on plaque regression. Experimental models have revealed that statins exert a variety of other cardiovascular effects, which would be predicted to be of clinical benefit: they possess anti-inflammatory properties, as evidenced by their ability to reduce the accumulation of inflammatory cells in atherosclerotic plaques; they inhibit vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, a key event in atherogenesis; they inhibit platelet function, thereby limiting both atherosclerosis and superadded thrombosis; and they improve vascular endothelial function, largely through augmentation of nitric oxide (NO) generation. The relative importance of the lipid- and non-lipid-related effects of the statins in the clinical situation remains the subject of much continuing research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12804728
The Cardiovascular Risk Identification and Treatment Center was established in 1997, adopting a collaborative-care clinic model for the purpose of improving the management of high-risk patients with dyslipidemia. This was a retrospective analysis of 417 high-risk patients with > or =1 year of follow-up laboratory data. Analysis included changes in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), non-HDL, triglycerides, and total cholesterol to HDL ratio; lipoprotein goal achievement; Framingham risk score; liver function; and cardiovascular events. At baseline, 66% of patients had coronary heart disease (CHD) or equivalent risk, 45% were not receiving dyslipidemia therapy, and 29% were on statin monotherapy. After 3 years in the program, 56% were receiving combination therapy, 41% were on monotherapy, and 2% were not on therapy. The 3 most common treatment regimens were statin plus niacin (36%), statin alone (22%), and niacin alone (14%). All lipoproteins improved from baseline (p <0.001). Overall, 62% to 74% of patients reached singular lipid goals and 35% achieved combined lipid goals. Patients with Framingham 10-year CHD risk of >20% were reduced from 6% to <1%. Only 29 patients (7.0%) had a cardiovascular event, including 5 (1.0%) who experienced a myocardial infarction. Aspartate aminotransferase/alanine transferase elevation >3 times normal occurred in 1% of patients. In conclusion, a collaborative-care practice model adopting individualized, aggressive pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic treatment strategies is highly effective in achieving lipid goals, is sustainable, and is safe. Furthermore, this approach yields reduced projected 10-year CHD risk. A low rate of cardiovascular events was observed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12806569
In vitro and in vivo brain slice techniques were used to examine phencyclidine (PCP) effects on the lateral propagation of epileptiform field potentials (EFP) across adjacent areas of rat frontal neocortex. Epileptiform activity was induced by perfusing slices with Mg 2+-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Simultaneous field potential recordings of EFP were obtained from four microelectrodes placed 2-3 mm apart across coronal slices in the third layer. PCP, applied focally between recording sites, blocked rapid propagation across treated areas and resulted in the emergence of spatially separate, independent pacemakers. The characteristics of paroxysmal depolarization shifts did not change significantly by the blockade of lateral propagation of EFP. The same asynchronized pattern of EFP conduction was observed after local application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphono-valeric acid. Local administration of haloperidol as well as NMDA before PCP application reversibly prevented appearance of multiple pacemakers. Focal application of dopamine produced an abnormal pattern of lateral conduction of EFP in 50 % of tested slices. Pacemaker failure as an indicator of functional impairment of cortical integration is the proposed mechanism for developing of schizophrenia-like psychosis associated with epilepsy. Abbreviations. APV: DL-2-amino-5-phosphono-valeric acid EEG:electroencephalogram EFP:epileptiform field potentials NMDA:N-methyl-D-aspartate PCP:phencyclidine SLPE:Schizophrenialike psychosis associated with epilepsy

Abstract for pubmed ID 12808877
Retrospective analysis of secondary prevention trials indicates that 3-hydroxy-3-methyglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) reduce the risk of recurrent coronary heart disease events in individuals with diabetes. Diabetic individuals may receive greater benefit from statin treatment than non-diabetic individuals, because of a higher absolute risk. Available data are limited, although several randomized trials of primary prevention with diabetic patients are ongoing. The low-density lipoprotein cholesterol goal is now considered to be < 100 mg/dl for individuals with diabetes. Pleiotropic effects of statins may be involved in anti-atherogenic or other actions of statin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12808879
Thiazolidinediones have recently emerged as promising antidiabetic drugs. Unlike other oral antidiabetic drugs, thiazolidinediones function to ameliorate insulin resistance, a primary factor for the development of type 2 diabetes. Thiazolidinediones are ligands of the nuclear receptor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, and their antidiabetic effects appear to be mediated by activation of this receptor. The two currently marketed thiazolidinediones, rosiglitazone and pioglitazone, display similar efficacies in their glucose lowering activities, but interestingly display slightly different clinical and side effect profiles. Understanding the molecular basis for these differences will help in the development of next generation thiazolidinediones that are more efficacious and safer for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12809960
The aim of this study was to assess obese patients with hypercholesterolemia whom were prescribed a standardized diet, comparing the action of orlistat, fluvastatin, orlistat with fluvastatin, and placebo on anthropometric measurements, blood pressure (BP), and lipid profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12809965
There is general agreement that patients who have elevated lipid levels and/or risk factors for or existing cardiovascular disease should receive aggressive cholesterol-lowering therapy. However, it is not clear whether patients are receiving the recommended treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12811417
The cardiovascular continuum describes the way from risk factors to atherosclerosis, acute cardiovascular events (unstable angina and myocardial infarction), and development of terminal heart failure and its complications. Following this way, advances are reported in the therapy of acute coronary syndrome, heart failure, ventricular and supraventricular tachyarrhythmias, and stroke in patients with patent foramen ovale. The following issues are reported in detail: (1) significance of statins and statin withdrawal, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blocker, acute coronary interventions, aspirin and clopidogrel in unstable coronary syndromes, (2) pathogenesis of acute pulmonary edema associated with hypertension, (3) cardiac regeneration capability after transplantation and myocardial infarction, (4) beta-blocker therapy, efficacy of additional angiotensin receptor blocker therapy and multisite biventricular pacing in symptomatic (advanced) heart failure, (5) prognosis after ablation of the atrioventricular node in patients with atrial fibrillation, (6) primary prevention with an implantable defibrillator and resumption of driving after implantation, and (7) therapeutic options after cryptogenic stroke and patent foramen ovale.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12814710
Individuals with diabetes are at increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, although typically their plasma concentrations of LDL cholesterol are similar to those in the general population. Previous evidence about the effects of lowering cholesterol in people with diabetes has been limited, and most diabetic patients do not currently receive cholesterol-lowering therapy despite their increased risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12814712
Renal transplant recipients are at increased risk of premature cardiovascular disease. Although statins reduce cardiovascular risk in the general population, their efficacy and safety in renal transplant recipients have not been established. We investigated the effects of fluvastatin on cardiac and renal endpoints in this population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12815379
In the 1950s and 1960s, it became apparent that elevated concentrations of plasma cholesterol were a major risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease, which led to the search for drugs that could reduce plasma cholesterol. One possibility was to reduce cholesterol biosynthesis, and the rate-limiting enzyme in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway, 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase, was a natural target. Here, I describe the discovery and development of lovastatin--the first approved inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase--and the clinical trials that have provided the evidence for the ability of drugs in this class to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12815556
The protease inhibitor class of antiretroviral agents is associated with the unwanted side effect of hypertriglyceridemia, which is usually treated with either HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) or fibrates. However, since statin therapy is intrinsically immunomodulatory, we questioned whether the T-cell response of patients who received PI-based therapy plus statin differed from the response of patients on PI therapy alone or on PI therapy with a fibrate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12816020
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12817528
The object of this study was to analyze drug interactions between repaglinide, a short-acting insulin secretagogue, and five other drugs interacting with CYP3A4: ketoconazole, rifampicin, ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel (in an oral contraceptive), simvastatin, and nifedipine. In two open-label, two-period, randomized crossover studies, healthy subjects received repaglinide alone, repaglinide on day 5 of ketoconazole treatment, or repaglinide on day 7 of rifampicin treatment. In three open-label, three-period, randomized crossover studies, healthy subjects received 5 days of repaglinide alone; 5 days of ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel, simvastatin, or nifedipine alone; or 5 days of repaglinide concomitant with ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel, simvastatin, or nifedipine. Compared to administration of repaglinide alone, concomitant ketoconazole increased mean AUC0-infinity for repaglinide by 15% and mean Cmax by 7%. Concomitant rifampicin decreased mean AUC0-infinity for repaglinide by 31% and mean Cmax by 26%. Concomitant treatment with CYP3A4 substrates altered mean AUC0-5 h and mean Cmax for repaglinide by 1% and 17% (ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel), 2% and 27% (simvastatin), or 11% and 3% (nifedipine). Profiles of blood glucose concentration following repaglinide dosing were altered by less than 8% by both ketoconazole and rifampicin. In all five studies, most adverse events were related to hypoglycemia, as expected in a normal population given a blood glucose regulator. The safety profile of repaglinide was not altered by pretreatment with ketoconazole or rifampicin or by coadministration with ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel. The incidence of adverse events increased with coadministration of simvastatin or nifedipine compared to either repaglinide or simvastatin/nifedipine treatment alone. No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions occurred between repaglinide and the CYP3A4 substrates ethinyloestradiol/levonorgestrel, simvastatin, or nifedipine. The pharmacokinetic profile of repaglinide was altered by administration of potent inhibitors or inducers, such as ketoconazole or rifampicin, but to a lesser degree than expected. These results are probably explained by the metabolic pathway of repaglinide that involves other enzymes than CYP3A4, reflected to some extent by a small change in repaglinide pharmacodynamics. Thus, careful monitoring of blood glucose in repaglinide-treated patients receiving strong inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 is recommended, and an increase in repaglinide dose may be necessary. No safety concerns were observed, except a higher incidence in adverse events in patients receiving repaglinide and simvastatin or nifedipine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12818407
The effect of statin therapy on subclasses of LDL, VLDL and HDL lipoproteins is unclear. We compared changes in serum lipids, apolipoproteins and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy measured lipoprotein subclass concentration and average particle size over a minimum 6 months treatment period of atorvastatin 10 mg vs. placebo in 122 men and women. All subjects had type 2 diabetes and a modest dyslipidaemia (mean LDL-cholesterol 3.2 mmol/l and median triglycerides 1.8 mmol/l) and had a previous myocardial infarction. Compared with placebo, atorvastatin therapy was associated with a greater decrease in medium VLDL (median within person change -13.4 vs. -5.9 nmol/l, P<0.001 adjusted for baseline level), small VLDL (median change -17.8 vs. -8.1 nmol/l, P=0.002), large LDL (mean within person change -167.9 vs. -48.6 nmol/l, P<0.001) and medium LDL (median within person change -101.8 vs. -22.3 nmol/l, P=0.017). Atorvastatin therapy was also associated with a greater increase in large HDL than placebo (median change 1.40 vs. 0.80 micromol/l, P=0.02) and there was little change in small HDL so that average HDL particle size increased significantly with atorvastatin (P=0.04). In addition to reducing levels of (enzymatically measured) triglyceride, LDL-cholesterol and apolipoprotein B in diabetic patients, atorvastatin significantly reduces NMR measured medium and small VLDL and large and medium LDL, and increases large HDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12819995
Drug therapy of coronary heart disease (CHD) is a life-long treatment. With every change from in-patient to out-patient care and back, changes in medication may occur. If a drug is chosen which provides no proven long-term benefit in terms of reduced morbidity and mortality, the expected therapeutic benefit may be missed. We investigated in 224 patients admitted to the medical departments of two hospitals (one with a specialized Cardiology Unit, one with a General Internal Medicine Unit) the prescriptions for CHD by the general practitioner before admittance into the hospital, the prescriptions recommended at the time of discharge, and the prescriptions made by the general practitioner three months after discharge. Of the drug classes with proven effects on morbidity and mortality (acetylsalicylic acid, beta-blockers, statins, ACE inhibitors), none had sufficiently high prescription rates. Prescription rates at discharge were 30% for beta-blockers and statins, 70% for acetylsalicylic acid, and 60% for ACE inhibitors. Only in patients with acute myocardial infarction were the prescription rates for these drug classes higher at this time point. The presence of contraindications was not of prime importance for the low prescription rates, as even in patients without contraindications prescription rates were not significantly higher than in the total patient cohort. Out of the patients with hypercholesterolemia, one third of those treated in the Cardiology Department and two thirds of those treated in the General Internal Medicine Department were not given any lipid-lowering medication. Prescription rates for those drug classes that provide symptomatic relief but have little impact on mortality rates (calcium channel blockers, nitrates) were high in both hospitals. The present study shows that evidence-based guidelines for the drug treatment of coronary heart disease are not adequately put into practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12820814
To quantify the risk of cognitive impairment with use of lipid-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12821213
Low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) are frequently encountered in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), most often in combination with elevated triglycerides as part of a dysmetabolic syndrome. Although no large secondary prevention trials with statin therapy with special emphasis on low HDL-C have been performed, some guidance can be extracted from a number of post-hoc analyses on how to treat patients with low levels of HDL-C. In terms of risk reduction, statin therapy appears to be at least as effective in patients with low compared to normal HDL-C levels. Fibrate therapy seems only effective when low HDL-C coincides with a level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in the low-normal range. Before considering combination therapy of statins with fibrates, much emphasis should be put on dietary changes, weight reduction, smoking cessation and regular exercise, since these measures are effective tools to raise HDL-C levels. Moreover, one should be aware of the fact that combination therapy of statins and fibrates is not evidence-based and confers some potential risk of myopathy. Future therapy options may include CETP (cholesterol ester transfer protein) inhibitors, but these agents are still in an experimental phase. As most patients with low HDL-C levels share features of the dysmetabolic syndrome, one could also consider a combination therapy of statins and ACE-inhibitors, since this combination is not only safe, but the individual preventive effects of these compounds appear to be cumulative.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12821221
To determine whether early statin therapy in acute myocardial infarction has any effect on ventricular late potentials which are considered as a noninvasive tool for evaluation of arrhythmogenic substrate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12822200
An important issue for stroke prevention is the identification and treatment of risk factors such as hypercholesterolaemia. The 4 reasons to test if the statins have a role in stroke prevention are: (i) a statistical link between elevated low density lipoprotein-cholesterol or decreased high density lipoprotein-cholesterol and ischaemic stroke; (ii) a reduction in vascular risk with statins in randomised trials in patients with coronary heart disease; (iii) evidence of a decreased plaque progression under statins; and (iv) pooled analyses of primary and secondary prevention trials showing that reduction of total serum cholesterol reduces the incidence of stroke, especially with the highest rate of cholesterol reduction, and in patients with the highest risk of stroke (i.e. with statins in secondary prevention trials). The question of whether statins also have a neuroprotective effect in humans and reduce the risk of post-stroke dementia remains unsettled.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12822202
The treatment of hypercholesterolaemia in children is often discussed as part of the primary prevention strategy for premature coronary disease in adults. Cholesterol-lowering drugs are appropriate in children with hereditary autosomal dominant diseases such as familial hypercholesterolaemia, familial Apo B100 deficiency, or combined familial dyslipidaemia. Indeed, these diseases are associated with a high risk of cardiovascular attacks in young adults. In children suffering from these diseases, cholesterol-lowering drugs are considered when the plasma low density-lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol concentration remains above 190 mg/dL after a 6-month dietary treatment. The drug of first choice remains bile acid-binding resines (colestyramine) because their efficacy and safety are well documented in children. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors can be used in children older than 8 or 9 years of age in cases of an altered observance of colestyramine treatment, but their long-term tolerance is unknown. Fibrates are also efficient, however, their safety has not been evaluated in controlled studies through in children.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12824720
Rosuvastatin (Crestor; licensed to AstraZeneca, Macclesfield, UK from Shionogi, Osaka, Japan) is a new statin with pharmacologic characteristics that translate into selectivity of effect in hepatic cells and enhanced potency in 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibition. It is approved for use at doses of 10-40 mg once daily to reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and improve other lipid measures in dyslipidemic patients. In a dose-ranging study in mild/moderate hypercholesterolemia, rosuvastatin reduced LDL cholesterol by 52-63% at 10-40 mg. Rosuvastatin 10 mg reduces LDL cholesterol significantly more than atorvastatin 10 mg, simvastatin 10-40 mg and pravastatin 10-40 mg, and enables significantly more patients to achieve National Cholesterol Education Program and Joint European Societies LDL cholesterol goals compared with each of these statins. Rosuvastatin also produces marked elevations in HDL cholesterol and maintains this effect across the dose range. Rosuvastatin favorably modifies triglycerides, LDL cholesterol and other lipid measures in patients with hypertriglyceridemia or mixed dyslipidemia, including diabetic patients, and may constitute a monotherapy option for many such patients. Rosuvastatin is well tolerated when used alone or in combination, exhibiting a safety profile similar to that of other available statins. Rosuvastatin offers considerable advantages for use in routine clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12826791
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12826933
The accumulating evidence suggests that C-reactive protein (CRP) may have direct inflammatory effects on the vascular wall and that statin therapy may have important non-lipid anti-inflammatory effects confirmed by decreasing serum inflammatory markers, such as CRP. However, the effect of simvastatin on interleukin-6 (IL-6) release in cultured human monocytes was not investigated. DESIGN A prospective, human monocyte culture, simvastatin intervention study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12828227
The Lescol Intervention Prevention Study (LIPS) was the first randomized trial to show a significant reduction in the risk of cardiac events in patients started on fluvastatin immediately after a successful percutaneous coronary intervention. The benefit was independent of baseline cholesterol levels. The results suggest that all patients should be discharged on lipid-lowering therapy after a percutaneous coronary intervention. Currently, this is seldom done.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12829553
To determine the combination of drugs and vitamins, and their doses, for use in a single daily pill to achieve a large effect in preventing cardiovascular disease with minimal adverse effects. The strategy was to simultaneously reduce four cardiovascular risk factors (low density lipoprotein cholesterol, blood pressure, serum homocysteine, and platelet function) regardless of pretreatment levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12829554
To determine by how much statins reduce serum concentrations of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and incidence of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) events and stroke, according to drug, dose, and duration of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12831816
The effectiveness of multifactorial cardiovascular disease prevention in patients aged 75 years or older is uncertain, because these patients have often been excluded from trials. The aim of this pre-planned, first-year analysis of the Drugs and Evidence-Based Medicine in the Elderly (DEBATE) Study was to determine the feasibility of prevention efforts in elderly cardiovascular patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12835406
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12836860
A 34-year-old patient of mine is taking a 'statin' for hyperlipidemia. She is planning pregnancy and is worried about the safety of the drug. How should I advise her?

Abstract for pubmed ID 12836863
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12837046
In this pilot, randomized, double-blind study, we compared the effects of policosanol and lovastatin on lipid profile and lipid peroxidation in patients with dyslipidemia and type 2 diabetes mellitus. After 4 weeks on a cholesterol-lowering diet, 36 patients were randomized to policosanol (10 mg/day) or lovastatin (20 mg/day) tablets o.i.d. for 8 weeks. Policosanol significantly (p < 0.001) lowered serum low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) (29.9%), total cholesterol (21.1%), triglycerides (13.6%) and the LDL-C/high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) (36.7%) and total cholesterol/HDL-C (28.9%) ratios and significantly (p < 0.01) increased HDL-C (12.5%). Lovastatin significantly (p < 0.001) lowered LDL-C (25%), total cholesterol (18%), triglycerides (10.9%) and the LDL-C/HDL-C (30.4%) and total cholesterol/HDL-C ratios (23.9%) and significantly (p < 0.01) raised HDL-C (8.3%). Policosanol was more effective (p < 0.05) than lovastatin in reducing both ratios and in increasing (p < 0.05) HDL-C. Policosanol, but not lovastatin, significantly raised the lag time (20.9%) of Cu+2-induced LDL peroxidation and total plasma antioxidant activity (24.2%) (p < 0.05). Both policosanol and lovastatin significantly decreased the propagation rate (41.9% and 41.6% respectively, p < 0.001), maximal diene production (8.3% and 5.7%) and plasma levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (9.7% and 11.5%, p < 0.001). Both treatments were well tolerated. Only one patient in the lovastatin group withdrew from the trial due to adverse events. In conclusion, policosanol and lovastatin administered short term to patients with dyslipidemia secondary to type 2 diabetes were effective in lowering cholesterol and in inhibiting the extent of lipid peroxidation. Policosanol (10 mg/day) was slightly more effective than lovastatin (20 mg/day) in reducing the LDL-C/HDL-C and total cholesterol/HDL-C ratios, in increasing HDL-C levels and in preventing LDL oxidation. Nevertheless, since this was a pilot study, further clinical studies performed in larger sample sizes of diabetic patients are needed for definitive conclusions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12838521
Previous observations suggested that multiple ischemic lesions on diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) are common in acute stroke patients. We hypothesized that a source of these multiple lesions was the recurrence of ischemic lesions within a week after a clinically symptomatic stroke. We analyzed 99 acute ischemic stroke patients scanned within 6 hours of onset and at subsequent times within the first week. Ischemic lesion recurrence was defined as any new lesion separate from the index lesion. Recurrent lesions occurring outside initial perfusion deficit were termed 'distant lesion recurrence'. We estimated the hazard ratio (HR) of recurrence associated with clinical and imaging characteristics using log-rank test. Any lesion recurrence was found in 34%, with distant lesion recurrence in 15%, while clinical recurrence was evident in 2%. Initial multiple DWI lesions were associated with any lesion recurrence (HR, 2.83; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.65-10.29; p = 0.002) and with distant lesion recurrence (HR, 5.99; 95% CI, 4.05-64.07; p < 0.0001). Large-artery atherosclerosis was the most frequent stroke subtype associated with any lesion recurrence (p = 0.026). These results may indicate a prolonged state of increased ischemic risk over the first week and suggest DWI as a possible surrogate measure for recurrent stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12838983
The basis for this meeting ras the fact that many neurological and psychiatric disorders are accompanied by neuronal loss, either acutely or chronically. Furthermore, many of the underlying mechanisms of neural tissue damage are similar across a wide variety of neurodegenerative conditions, including stroke, central nervous system damage secondary to cardiac surgery,epilepsy, traumatic brain and spinal cord injury, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and even some psychiatric diseases. Despite a large number of animal studies with promising neuroprotective agents, no successful strategy for neuroprotection from any of these conditions has been successfully demonstrated. The aim of the meeting was to review the current status of neuroprotection and provide new ideas on how to get further in research, preclinical and clinical study designs, and perhaps to generate 'out of the box' ideas for future progress by bringing together experts from different fields of neuroprotection.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12838988
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12838990
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12839042
Although many studies have documented that reduction of plasma cholesterol levels decreases the risk of coronary artery disease, it remains the most common cause of death in the Western world. Current therapeutic options are effective in lowering cholesterol, especially in clinical trials, but clinical application is not optimized for many reasons. Dietary restriction for long-term management of hypercholesterolemia is helpful but usually insufficient to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) to goal levels. Powerful drugs are available, but these are often insufficient to meet the clinical demands for cholesterol-lowering therapy. Phytosterols and phytostanols have been partially effective by providing some inhibition of absorption of cholesterol. Compounds that specifically and more effectively block intestinal absorption of dietary and biliary cholesterol should provide a significant new agent for altering lipoprotein concentrations favorably. Ezetimibe is the first of this class of compounds that act at the gut epithelium to reduce cholesterol absorption in the milligram dose range markedly. Clinical studies indicate that ezetimibe effectively decreases LDL-C by 15 to 20% as monotherapy, with a favorable safety profile. Moreover, results from preliminary clinical trials indicate that ezetimibe given concomitantly with a statin provides additive efficacy. The combination represents a new approach to lipid management, achieving greater LDL-C and triglyceride reductions and greater improvements in HDL-C than statin monotherapy. This could offer another important option in clinical practice for management of hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12841204
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12841820
To review the current evidence for use of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) in nontraditional lipid-related applications, including acute coronary syndromes, peripheral arterial disease, stroke, and renal disease, and to describe ongoing trials evaluating the role of statins in these conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12842237
Following cardiac transplantation, accelerated coronary disease limits long-term survival. Because statins may reduce the progression of the disease in part by their anti-inflammatory effects, this study was designed to assess if atorvastatin prevented neointimal hyperplasia and endothelial dysfunction independently of baseline cholesterol levels. Patients were randomized to usual therapy (n = 13) or to 10 to 20 mg of atorvastatin (n = 12). Control subjects received niacin when their low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels were >130 mg/dl (n = 4). Neointimal hyperplasia by intracoronary ultrasonography, endothelial dependent vascular reactivity, and coronary flow reserve were measured at baseline and 1 year. Control group total cholesterol (203 +/- 11 to 200 +/- 13 mg/dl) and LDL (116 +/- 10 to 119 +/- 11 mg/dl) remained stable, whereas there was a nonsignificant reduction at 12 months in the atorvastatin group (total cholesterol 216 +/- 28 to 178 +/- 21 mg/dl; LDL 126 +/- 17 to 100 +/- 18 mg/dl). At 2 to 3 months there was a significant increase in total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol that was reduced with atorvastatin. At 1 year, patients taking atorvastatin showed a decrease in new or progressing lesions (2.5 +/- 1.7 vs 4.2 +/- 1.8 lesions/patient, p = 0.02), progression of maximal intimal thickness (0.12 +/- 0.07 vs 0.52 +/- 0.17 mm, p = 0.04), and percent area stenosis (5.9 +/- 2.2% vs 19.0 +/- 5.5%, p = 0.04). Atorvastatin ameliorated progressive endothelial dysfunction, whereas coronary flow reserve was unchanged in both groups. Atorvastatin administered to patients with normal or mild hypercholesterolemia in the initial year after transplant reduced the initial increase in LDL cholesterol, and, by doing so, prevented the development and progression of coronary artery lesions and endothelial dysfunction with only mild long-term decreases in cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12842255
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12843167
To compare the effects of atorvastatin, gemfibrozil, and their combination on the components of diabetic dyslipidemia, 44 type 2 diabetic patients with low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc) levels greater than 100 mg/dl and triglyceride levels less than 400 mg/dl were included. Twelve-week treatments with atorvastatin (10-20 mg/d) and gemfibrozil (900-1200 mg/d) were given in random order in an open, cross-over study and then combined (10 mg atorvastatin and 900 mg gemfibrozil) for 12 additional wk. Triglyceride, LDLc, high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc), non-HDLc, apolipoprotein B (apoB), and LDL size were measured at baseline and after each treatment. Atorvastatin was more effective (P < 0.001) in lowering LDLc, non-HDLc, and apoB and in achieving treatment goals, whereas gemfibrozil lowered triglyceride levels more effectively (P < 0.001) and increased LDL size (from 25.59 +/- 0.06 to 25.69 +/- 0.06 nm; P < 0.05). Combined treatment with both drugs reduced LDLc, triglyceride, non-HDLc, and apoB by 26.5%, 24.1%, 30.4%, and 21.8%, respectively; increased HDLc by 4.8% and LDL size by 0.1 nm; and was the most effective treatment in reaching the therapeutic targets, especially in patients with triglyceride levels higher than 150 mg/dl. In conclusion, statins are first choice drugs in diabetic patients with low to moderate risk LDLc, although their combination with fibrates might be the most appropriate treatment, especially when triglyceride levels are above the therapeutic goal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12844470
The publication of the Antihypertensive and Lipid-lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) results, when used in conjunction with a new meta-analysis, provides hypertension research with a watershed. Data demonstrate clearly that lowering blood pressure is the most important aspect of hypertension management, and that all agents are similarly effective. There is little sustainable evidence for pressure-independent advantages for any class of drug at this time. Therefore, by combining these findings with additional information on target levels of blood pressure and safety, plus the use of aspirin and statins, we can formulate health care policies that attack hypertension in a holistic risk-based way. The future will focus on gaining extra benefit for patients by testing the efficacy and superiority of drug combinations using novel agents that favorably influence intermediate markers such as arterial stiffness, and arresting the ever-increasing burden of cognitive impairment and dementia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12845248
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12845391
The development of therapies for the control of atherosclerosis is an important example of the drug discovery process. Findings from population studies initiated 4 decades ago have been gradually translated to today's therapies, the most effective of which are the statins. Driven by an increased understanding of the atherosclerotic process and shortfalls of current treatments, the development of therapies for cholesterol control continues, with new agents in the pipeline promising therapeutic benefits over existing treatments. The advent of new statins such as rosuvastatin and pitavastatin, with improved efficacy for reducing cholesterol and the ability to positively affect other disease risk factors, may exploit the potential for improvement of current treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12846506
Major cardiac events are strongly associated with high levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). The HDL-C target level (40 mg/dl) is often not achieved with statins. The aim of this study was to compare the proportions of patients achieving the HDL-C target levels after one year of treatment with statins or fibrates. Furthermore, a subgroup with low HDL-C levels during statin treatment was investigated and suggestions are made for a better management of these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12847415
Acute rejection of kidney allografts during the first months following transplantation is one of the most important risk factor for long-term graft failure. Some small open studies have indicated that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-Co-A), statins, might act as immunosuppressive agents, and reduce acute rejection rates. Moreover, the use of statin in transplant recipients is quite common, despite no data from prospective large multi-centre studies are available to demonstrate any beneficial effect for acute rejections or long-term cardiovascular protection in this population. In this overview, recent clinical and experimental data will be provided for assessing statins as immunosuppressive agents. Although in vitro studies have provided a theoretical basis for the use of statins as immunosuppressive agents, more recent clinical placebo controlled studies have failed to confirm the initial optimism of this effect of statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12848779
To evaluate the effects of comorbidities and patient characteristics on treatment continuation among patients starting their first course of lipid-lowering drug (LLD) therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12849290
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12851516
Combination of a statin plus estrogen may reveal benefits on the cardiovascular system in postmenopausal women by additively ameliorating both the lipid profile and vascular function. Long-term therapy with estrogens, however, is associated with an increase of breast cancer risk. In contrast, evidence is accumulating that statins may inhibit carcinogenesis because of their central action on important cellular functions. It is of special clinical interest whether a statin/estrogen combination may reduce the most undesired side effect of estrogen therapy, that is, an increase in breast cancer risk. Therefore, in the present in vitro study, for the first time we have compared the effect of five statins on the proliferation of human breast cancer cells alone and in the presence of stimulatory estradiol (E(2)).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12852707
According to the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) III guidelines, hypercholesterolemic patients with greater risk for cardiovascular heart disease require more aggressive lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. Numerous studies have demonstrated that despite these guidelines, patients often do not reach their target levels, and that physicians frequently do not titrate the drug beyond the starting dose. For these patients, it may be more suitable to initiate treatment with a higher starting dose of statin. With the immediate-release (IR) formulation of fluvastatin, the maximal dose of 80 mg is recommended to be administered in divided doses (40 mg BID). An extended-release (ER) formulation of fluvastatin at a higher dose (fluvastatin ER 80 mg) was designed to provide greater LDL-C lowering with QD dosing. Use of this formulation should bring more patients into compliance with target LDL-C levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12858078
Multiple sclerosis is a central nervous system inflammatory demyelinating disease that is thought to have an autoimmune pathogenesis. Recent results indicate that 'statins', 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, which are the most commonly used oral cholesterol-lowering drugs, have immunomodulatory properties. In this article we will review those findings that indicate that statins may be beneficial in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, neurodegenerative disease, and ischemic stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12858127
Cardiovascular disease is the principal cause of death in industrialized countries. Hyperlipidemia, with high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides, and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (<40 mg/dL in men and <45 mg/dL in women), is a known major cardiovascular risk factor. Statins are considered the most potent and effective agents to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, but they have a variable effect on high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides. Different clinical trials with statins have shown a decrease in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 35% and a reduction of the incidence of coronary events by as much as 30%. However, 60 to 70% of events still occur, despite remarkable reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration. Recent National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines highlighted the importance of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol is considered an independent risk factor and has an inverse relation with coronary events. The association of low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol with an increased incidence of cardiovascular events implies a critical role of high-density lipoprotein in the protection against atherosclerotic disease and in the progression of coronary atherosclerotic disease. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol appears to exert this protective effect through multiple mechanisms. High-density lipoprotein is not only involved in reverse cholesterol transport, but also prevents endothelial dysfunction; inhibits the homing of monocytes, apoptosis, platelet activation, and factor X activation; and has antioxidant properties. In this article the authors review the available experimental and clinical evidence supporting the importance of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol as a protective factor in coronary artery disease, and the strategies developed to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12859032
The ratio of total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (or the ratio of low-density lipoprotein [LDL] to HDL) is currently advocated to estimate the coronary risk associated with LDL and HDL cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12859159
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) have been shown to stimulate bone formation in laboratory studies, both in vitro and in vivo. While early epidemiologic studies showed lower risk for hip fracture among statin users than nonusers, subsequent studies have produced mixed results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12860210
The apolipoprotein (apo) B lipoproteins, intermediate-density lipoproteins (IDL) and low-density lipoproteins (LDL) that contain apo-CIII are associated with coronary heart disease in patients with diabetes mellitus. Apo-CIII is prominent in diabetic dyslipidemia. We studied whether these apo-B lipoprotein types containing apo-CIII in diabetics are reduced by 1 year of pravastatin treatment. We randomly selected 45 age- and gender-matched placebo/pravastatin pairs from diabetic patients in the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events trial, a randomized, double-blinded trial of pravastatin 40 mg monotherapy. Very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and IDL + LDL particles were subdivided based on the presence of apo-E and apo-CIII to yield 3 particle types: E+CIII+, E-CIII+, and E-CIII-. Compared with placebo, pravastatin reduced IDL + LDL apo-B concentrations for E+CIII+, E-CIII+, and E-CIII- by 42% (p = 0.02), 17% (p = 0.7), and 29% (p = 0.002), respectively, commensurate with IDL + LDL cholesterol concentration reductions in the particle types of 29% (p = 0.002), 25% (p = 0.2), and 36% (p <0.0001), respectively. These IDL + LDL CIII+ particles are rich in triglycerides and cholesterol and are likely to be remnant particles of VLDL. Thus, pravastatin reduced potentially atherogenic remnant particles, a prominent component of diabetic dyslipidemia associated with coronary events; these results may contribute to its demonstrated effectiveness in reducing coronary heart disease in diabetics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12860216
The primary objective of this 6-week, parallel-group, open-label, randomized, multicenter trial was to compare rosuvastatin with atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin across dose ranges for reduction of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Secondary objectives included comparing rosuvastatin with comparators for other lipid modifications and achievement of National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III and Joint European Task Force LDL cholesterol goals. After a dietary lead-in period, 2,431 adults with hypercholesterolemia (LDL cholesterol > or =160 and <250 mg/dl; triglycerides <400 mg/dl) were randomized to treatment with rosuvastatin 10, 20, 40, or 80 mg; atorvastatin 10, 20, 40, or 80 mg; simvastatin 10, 20, 40, or 80 mg; or pravastatin 10, 20, or 40 mg. At 6 weeks, across-dose analyses showed that rosuvastatin 10 to 80 mg reduced LDL cholesterol by a mean of 8.2% more than atorvastatin 10 to 80 mg, 26% more than pravastatin 10 to 40 mg, and 12% to 18% more than simvastatin 10 to 80 mg (all p <0.001). Mean percent changes in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in the rosuvastatin groups were +7.7% to +9.6% compared with +2.1% to +6.8% in all other groups. Across dose ranges, rosuvastatin reduced total cholesterol significantly more (p <0.001) than all comparators and triglycerides significantly more (p <0.001) than simvastatin and pravastatin. Adult Treatment Panel III LDL cholesterol goals were achieved by 82% to 89% of patients treated with rosuvastatin 10 to 40 mg compared with 69% to 85% of patients treated with atorvastatin 10 to 80 mg; the European LDL cholesterol goal of <3.0 mmol/L was achieved by 79% to 92% in rosuvastatin groups compared with 52% to 81% in atorvastatin groups. Drug tolerability was similar across treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12860491
Hypercholesterolemic patients with metabolic syndrome (MS) are at high risk for coronary heart disease. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) guidelines provide the option of aggressively lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in hypercholesterolemic patients with MS.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12860867
Raised plasma lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. It is unknown whether increased Lp(a) is an additional risk factor for coronary artery disease in familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) or whether statin treatment can reduce Lp(a) concentrations in the long term.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12860911
The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) recently proposed a simple definition for metabolic syndrome. Information on the prospective association of this definition for coronary heart disease (CHD) and type 2 diabetes is currently limited.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12860913
The pleiotropic actions of hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) include antiinflammatory and antioxidant actions. We recently reported that statins induce reductions in plasma protein levels of nitrotyrosine (NO2Tyr), a modification generated by nitric oxide-derived oxidants. Whether alternative oxidative pathways are suppressed in vivo after statin administration has not yet been reported.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12862032
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12868997
Cardiovascular risk is greatly increased in renal transplant recipients. 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy may reduce cardiovascular risk by improving both dyslipidemia and endothelial function. We therefore performed this study to assess the effect of fluvastatin on endothelial function in renal transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12871130
Statins are inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA reductase), the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol synthesis. In recent years, statins have become the major choice of treatment for hypercholesterolemia. Emerging evidence from both animal and human studies indicates that mechanisms independent of cholesterol lowering effects contribute to the observed clinical benefits of statins. The anti-hypertrophy effect of statins on the cardiac tissue represents one of such mechanisms. The beneficial effects of statins on cardiac hypertrophy and cardioprotection may be attributed to their functional influences on small G proteins such as Ras and Rho, resulting in an increase of endogenous nitric oxide (NO), reduction of oxidative stress, inhibition of inflammatory reaction, and decrease of the renin-angiotensin system activity as well as C-reactive protein (CRP) levels in cardiac tissues. Recent findings from in vitro and in vivo studies of statins on cardioprotective effects are summarized in this review. The unveiled novel mechanisms support the use of statins as the new mainstay therapeutic agents for various cardiovascular diseases and complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12873852
Plasma amyloid beta-protein Abeta42 levels are increased in patients with familial Alzheimer disease (AD) mutations, and high levels reportedly identify individuals at risk to develop AD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12876093
To enhance the effectiveness of diet in lowering cholesterol, recommendations of the Adult Treatment Panel III of the National Cholesterol Education Program emphasize diets low in saturated fat together with plant sterols and viscous fibers, and the American Heart Association supports the use of soy protein and nuts.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12876098
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12877794
To investigate whether patients, who are at risk of major acute coronary events, are safe to undergo and benefit from early intervention after using simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12879992
Dyslipidemic conditions and their cardiovascular related complications are common. Effective primary and secondary prevention strategies include therapies to lower LDL and total cholesterol and to increase HDL. Further, it seems that there is a need for therapeutic reduction in triglycerides as it emerges as an independent risk factor for CVD. Many clinical trials have been designed to evaluate pharmacologic compounds in the treatment of the dyslipidemias and they seem to have shown a safe profile, both in the experiment phases and in post-marketing observation studies. Nevertheless, sporadic reports of hepatotoxicity with statins and niacin still arise (Table 2). Although routine hepatic biochemical test monitoring is recommended, the cost-effectiveness is questionable because often these reactions are idiosyncratic and may not be identified by this routine screening. The risk/benefit ratio is in favor of using these medications in individuals at risk. There is no evidence to suggest intrinsic hepatotoxic activity as such. Drugs that lower triglycerides such as fibrates, have been observed to improve hepatic biochemical tests, although in small series. This leads to speculation whether treatment with fibrates would be beneficial for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a condition that is emerging as one of enormous magnitude.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12885101
To review case reports of statin-associated memory loss as well as the available published evidence for and against such a link.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12885571
A recent clinical study showed that statins, which are inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis pathway, reduced the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Animal studies that have employed high cholesterol diet indicate significant relationship between cholesterol level and senile plaque deposition. Here, we investigated the effects of lovastatin on beta-amyloid production and senile plaque deposition in an animal model of AD (Tg2576 mice). As expected, lovastatin treatment reduced plasma cholesterol level in both male and female mice. However, lovastatin enhanced the amounts of beta-amyloid and other beta-secretase derived peptides in females, but not in males. Likewise, lovastatin increased the number of plaques in the hippocampus and cortex of females, but not in males. Lovastatin did not change the amounts of full-length or alpha-secretase processed amyloid precursor protein (APP), or presenilin 1 (PS1) in either sex. Thus, lovastatin lowers cholesterol level in both genders, but enhances beta-amyloid production and senile plaque deposition only in brains of female Tg2576 mice. Our results suggest that low plasma cholesterol levels might be a risk factor for AD in females.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12885745
Chronic heart failure is associated with inflammation and neurohormonal imbalance. The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, or statins, exert anti-inflammatory and vascular protective effects. We hypothesized that short-term statin therapy may have beneficial effects in patients with nonischemic heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12888133
In clinical practice, we found no significant difference between atorvastatin therapy or other statin therapies in the clinical outcomes of patients with acute coronary syndromes receiving clopidogrel therapy. In patients receiving atorvastatin therapy, clopidogrel therapy was associated with a significant decrease in mortality and stroke during univariate analysis and a moderate trend of reduced mortality and stroke without statistical significance in the multivariate analysis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12888137
In this randomized trial, C-reactive protein increased during the first 5 days of an acute coronary syndrome in patients treated with placebo, but this phenomenon was not observed in those randomized to atorvastatin 80 mg/day. This suggests that short-term statin therapy inhibits inflammation in patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12888140
This report provides preliminary evidence that statins may lower C-reactive protein levels by interfering with the generation and/or release of C-reactive protein in the liver rather than by modulating inflammatory processes in the vessel wall.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12888149
The comparative effects of more versus less aggressive low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowering (to </=80 vs >80 mg/dl) on calcified coronary plaque progression by electron beam tomography were evaluated in 182 consecutive asymptomatic patients after 1.2 years of treatment with statins alone or in combination with niacin. Despite the greater improvement in lipids in the </=80 versus >80 mg/dl groups, there were no differences in calcified plaque progression (9.3%/year vs 9.1%/year). We conclude that, with respect to LDL cholesterol lowering, "lower is better" is not supported by changes in calcified plaque progression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12888150
This randomized open-label trial investigated whether autonomic cardiovascular control is altered in middle-aged men with combined hyperlipidemia and whether such alterations are affected by short-term, lipid-lowering therapy with atorvastatin and/or fenofibrate. Compared with normolipidemic subjects, untreated subjects with combined hyperlipidemia had several abnormalities of autonomic tone, indicating increased sympathetic tone and decreased baroreflex sensitivity. The alterations in autonomic cardiovascular control were partially reversible by each of the lipid-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12888702
The efficacy and safety of lipid-lowering agents in elderly individuals have not been extensively assessed. This population generally takes more drugs concurrently than middle-aged patients, and are therefore at higher risk of drug-drug interactions. This large-scale, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study investigated the efficacy and safety of extended-release (XL) fluvastatin 80 mg once daily for up to 1 year in elderly patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. A total of 1229 patients (mean age, 75.5 years) were randomized. After 2 months of treatment, fluvastatin XL 80 mg significantly decreased plasma lipid levels from baseline compared with placebo; fluvastatin reduced total cholesterol by 25% compared with a decrease of 2.5% in the placebo group, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol was -33% vs. -2.5%, respectively, and triglycerides were -13.3% vs. 2.9%, respectively (p<0.00001). The safety profile of fluvastatin XL was similar to that of placebo. Fluvastatin XL 80 mg once daily was well tolerated and effectively managed plasma lipid profiles in a large cohort of elderly patients. These findings are consistent with data obtained previously in younger recipients of fluvastatin XL 80 mg, and reinforce the safety of fluvastatin in a population at high risk of drug-drug interactions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12892391
The Committee reviewed cardiac involvement in the antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. The Committee's recommendations are: Valve abnormalities: anticoagulation is recommended for symptomatic patients with valvulopathy. Prophylactic antiplatelet therapy may be appropriate for asymptomatic patients (recommended by 13/17 experts in an independent review). Committee members disagreed whether corticosteroid therapy is helpful, but agree that distinguishing among presumptive valvulitis (valve thickening on echocardiogram), valve deformity and vegetations is important, as treatment implications may differ. Occlusive arterial disease (angina, myocardial infarction): the Committee recommends aggressive treatment of all risk factors for atherosclerosis (hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, smoking) and liberal use of folic acid, B vitamins and cholesterol-lowering drugs (preferably statins). Hydroxychloroquine for cardiac protection in APS patients may be considered. The Committee also recommends warfarin anticoagulation for those who have suffered thrombosis in the absence of atherosclerosis, but recognizes that developing data may support the use of antiplatelet agents instead. Intracardiac thrombi: the Committee recommends intensive warfarin anticoagulation, and consultation with cardiac surgeons when appropriate. Ventricular dysfunction: the Committee has no recommendations on this aspect of cardiac disease. Pulmonary hypertension: the Committee recommends intensive anticoagulation with warfarin and clinical trials of bosentan, epoprostenol and other new agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12893392
We investigated the associations between baseline C-reactive protein levels in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary angioplasty and death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and repeat revascularization during 14 months of follow-up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12893398
Diabetes mellitus is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. We compared the clinical effects of treating dyslipidemia in patients who had diabetes mellitus but no diagnosed cardiovascular disease with the effects of similar treatment in patients who had cardiovascular disease but no diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12893402
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12895195
In contrast to cyclosporin, only limited information exists on the interaction potential between the immunosuppressive agent tacrolimus and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, which are metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system. The aim of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics, and adverse effects of cerivastatin combined with tacrolimus in renal transplant patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12899509
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12904106
Combination lipid-altering regimens represent an emerging clinical paradigm to meet increasingly stringent consensus lipoprotein targets for coronary prevention. This practice, together with escalating prevalences of coronary artery disease in certain ageing (western industrial) populations, polypharmacy in the elderly and the recent voluntary market withdrawal of cerivastatin, warrants a re-examination of the safety profiles of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl co-enzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (i.e., statins). These agents are exceedingly well-tolerated in the vast majority of patients, very infrequently precipitating musculoskeletal symptoms and/or signs. Statins vary in their pharmacological profiles, leading to distinct levels of systemic exposure and capacities to penetrate skeletal myocytes. Pharmacokinetic interactions with certain agents increase the likelihood of statin-induced myopathy and, in exceedingly rare instances, potentially fatal rhabdomyolysis with myoglobinuria and renal failure. As with other medical decisions, the anticipated benefits of long-term statin therapy, with or without other lipid-altering agents, need to be weighed against the prospects of clinically significant drug interactions. In clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance, the two statins that are not metabolised by the cytochrome P450 3A4 system (fluvastatin and pravastatin) have exhibited very low propensities to elicit myopathy when combined with other agents. These agents should be considered initially when contemplating combination lipid-lowering regimens for coronary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12904142
In this mini-review, the evidence for safety and efficacy of currently available statins is discussed. Large-scale, long-term clinical studies have documented an outstanding efficacy and safety profile for statin monotherapy when used at pharmacological doses. Non-life-threatening side effects may occur in up to 15% of patients receiving one statin. Sporadic reports show possible adverse effects of statins on nervous system function including mood alterations. More serious side effects may also occur but at much lower rates. Significant elevations in the activity of serum aminotransferase and creatine kinase alone or in combination with muscle pain in statin-treated patients should be taken seriously; under these conditions, monitoring the statin dose or its discontinuation must be considered. Unlike monotherapy, combination therapy is more problematic. Particularly, combination of the statins with gemfibrozil results in higher rates of drug toxicity. Co-administration of statins with other drugs, especially those which may interfere with the cytochrome P450 system, should be considered carefully. Special attention must be paid to the tolerability of the statins in elderly and transplant patients. The safety of statins in children and adolescents has not yet been well-documented, thus, statin therapy is not routinely recommended in this group of hyperlipidaemic subjects. Future clinical studies and surveillance information will warrant long-term safety of each member of this class of lipid-lowering agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12904155
HIV protease inhibitors decrease mortality and improve quality of life in patients with HIV infection. However, these drugs have been associated with serum lipid elevations, which may pose an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and pancreatitis. Treatment of protease inhibitor-related hyperlipidaemia (PIH) is complicated by drug interactions, which significantly increase concentrations of most 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins). Although pravastatin and atorvastatin effectively lower cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations in HIV-infected patients, a significant number of patients did not achieve their National Cholesterol Education Program low density lipoprotein concentration goals. Nonetheless, due to the increased risk of rhabdomyolysis with elevated statin concentrations, atorvastatin should be considered a second-line agent. The limited available PIH data supports the fact that pravastatin and atorvastatin are well-tolerated in HIV-infected individuals. More data are needed on the appropriate starting doses, maximum safe doses, role of combination statin-fibrate therapy, documentation of coronary heart disease benefit and incidence of myotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. Pravastatin has an acceptable risk-benefit ratio in PIH, while theoretical toxicity concerns exist with atorvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12904707
The optimal drug for the prevention of venous thromboembolism is one that is efficacious, associated with minimal bleeding risk, and easy to administer. Statins fulfill the latter two criteria, but their efficacy remains unproved. By examining the association between dyslipidemia and venous thromboembolism, as well as the evidence that statins might prevent venous thromboembolism, there may be a new rationale for the use of this class of drugs. There may be a common link between arterial and venous thrombosis. Dyslipidemia may be one of the many systemic factors associated not only with arterial thrombosis, but with venous thromboembolism as well. This may occur through the effects of circulating lipid molecules on the vascular endothelium, platelet function, and coagulation factors. By impeding these mechanisms, statins may be protective against venous thrombosis, but epidemiologic studies are few in number, and no randomized clinical trials have been conducted. Better epidemiologic evidence is required to establish whether dyslipidemia is a risk factor for venous thromboembolism. If future observational studies can demonstrate that statins are associated with a lower risk of venous thromboembolism, then consideration should be given to conducting a randomized clinical trial comparing statins with placebo for the prevention of venous thromboembolism. Until then, the efficacy of statins for the prevention or treatment of venous thromboembolism remains uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12904816
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12906976
This study was initiated to determine whether heart transplant recipients (HTRs) with cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) have increased levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and to examine whether an increase in hsCRP after heart transplantation predicts the development of CAV. Furthermore, the effect of pravastatin on plasma levels of hsCRP in HTRs was investigated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12908497
The efficacy of pravastatin and simvastatin was first shown several years ago in patients with coronary heart disease. Other trials have since been published. In the HPS trial, which studied patients with coronary heart disease, other cardiovascular conditions, or diabetes, simvastatin significantly reduced the risk of death, coronary events and stroke when compared with placebo. In the ALLHAT-LLT trial, in patients with treated hypertension, pravastatin did not reduce overall mortality. In the PROSPER trial, in patients aged over 70 with cardiovascular disease or cardiovascular risk factors, pravastatin reduced the incidence of coronary events relative to placebo, but did not reduce overall mortality. Pharmacovigilance studies suggest there is no difference between these four statins in terms of their potential to cause rhabdomyolysis. Taken together, these trials show that statin use can be extended to patients with levels of LDL-cholesterol over 2.4 mmol/l (0.9 g/l) if they have coronary heart disease (and no hypercholesterolaemia), a history of ischaemic stroke, or lower-limb arterial disease. Statins can also be prescribed for diabetic patients with no signs of cardiovascular disease but whose LDL-cholesterol exceeds 3.4 mmol/l (1.3 g/l). Clinical trial data support the use of pravastatin or simvastatin in these situations, at a dose of 20 or 40 mg daily. Plasma creatine phosphokinase assay should be done if muscle symptoms occur or if the patient has a particular risk of rhabdomyolysis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12911845
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12911850
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12912693
To examine the association of hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) with the 5-year incidence of age-related maculopathy (ARM).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12914359
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12915827
To determine the safety and efficacy of atorvastatin (10 to 20 mg) in children and adolescents with familial hypercholesterolemia or severe hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12915931
Recent reports of fatal ticlopidine-induced blood dyscrasias have led many interventional cardiologists to administer clopidogrel instead of ticlopidine for coronary stenting. Most studies have demonstrated similar outcomes and a more favourable safety profile supporting this change in practice patterns.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12918548
Several lipid-lowering intervention studies published in 2002 shed light on the current status and the future of cardiovascular risk reduction by drug therapy. The Heart Protection Study has demonstrated that simvastatin reduces heart attack, stroke and revascularisation risk by about one-third irrespective of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, patient's age or sex, or the nature of pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Coronary heart disease death and myocardial infarction risk reduction in elderly patients by pravastatin in the PROSPER study was similar to the benefit of statins in middle-aged populations in other studies. The ALLHAT-LLT study has failed to demonstrate a benefit of pravastatin on all-cause mortality, CHD death or nonfatal myocardial infarction, illustrating that too modest cholesterol lowering does not result in clinical benefit under all circumstances. The cholesterol absorption inhibitor ezetimibe has demonstrated significant LDL and total cholesterol lowering, and induced an additional 21% LDL cholesterol lowering when added to ongoing statin therapy. The cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitor JJT-705 produced a dose-dependent increase in HDL cholesterol concentrations of up to 34% and improved the total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio in healthy individuals while having very mild side effects. Cholesterol absorption inhibitors and HDL cholesterol enhancers may become useful tools to achieve further improvements in cardiovascular risk reduction in the future.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12918888
Management of hyperlipidaemia in patients with ischaemic heart disease is suboptimal despite the proven benefit of statin therapy. Significant improvement in management has been shown in the EUROASPIRE II study. It is unclear, however, whether such changes have also occurred in primary care. We aimed to evaluate the use of statin therapy by performing a cross-sectional survey of 300 patients with CHD aged >30 years from three general practices. A total of 249 (83%) of the 300 patients had their cholesterol measured and 141 (47%) were on statin therapy; 129 (43% of total) achieved a target cholesterol of <5 mmol/l, of whom 85 (64%) were on statin therapy. Of the remaining 120 patients whose cholesterol exceeded 5 mmol/l, 56 (47%) were on statin therapy Thus 60% (85/141) of those on statin therapy achieved adequate control compared with 40% (44/108) without statins (p<0.008). Those patients with CHD diagnosed on objective evidence were more likely to receive statin therapy (55.5%). Many patients with CHD are still not receiving appropriate secondary prevention. Those on statin therapy are more likely to achieve target levels <5 mmol/l. The average doses of statins vary and are lower than the evidence-based doses used in previous large-scale studies, which may help explain the persistence of failed treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12925055
To investigate the effects of atorvastatin on glucose homeostasis, the basal and postprandial lipid profiles and the CRP levels (C reactive protein) in subjects with impaired fasting glucose (IFG).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12925453
Statins primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) reportedly reduce clopidogrel's metabolism to active metabolite, thus attenuating its inhibition of platelet aggregation ex vivo. However, the clinical impact of this interaction has not been evaluated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12928279
To evaluate the association between age related maculopathy (ARM) and statin use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12932588
This study was designed to assess prospectively changes in serum lipid profile and myocardial perfusion with serial radionuclide single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) during the first six months of pravastatin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12932601
Changes in coronary plaque color and morphology by statin therapy were evaluated using coronary angioscopy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12932603
We sought to study the effect of long-term statin use on psychometric measures in an adult population with underlying coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 12934785
Dyslipidemia is one of the most important modifiable risk factors for coronary disease. Despite the availability of highly effective lipid-modifying agents, many patients still do not reach lipid targets established by national guidelines. Niacin has been known to be an effective treatment of dyslipidemia for almost half a century. Niacin substantially increases high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels while lowering levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), triglycerides, and lipoprotein(a). In addition, niacin converts small LDL particles into more buoyant, less atherogenic LDL particles. Combined with other agents, niacin offers an important treatment option for patients with dyslipidemia. In particular, niacin complements LDL-C-lowering drugs; it is the most effective agent available for increasing HDL-C levels while lowering levels of LDL-C and triglycerides and improving other lipid risk factors such as lipoprotein(a). Combining niacin with statins or bile acid sequestrant therapy is safe and effective for improving lipid levels and decreasing coronary risk. Differences in niacin formulations dictate tolerability profiles and should be considered when selecting niacin as part of lipid therapy. Furthermore, adverse effects on glucose and insulin sensitivity should be considered when selecting candidates for niacin therapy. Adding niacin to lipid-lowering regimens is a valuable option for physicians treating patients with dyslipidemia and should be considered in appropriate patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12938249
Using statins to treat older men and women with coronary artery disease (CAD) and hypercholesterolemia reduces the risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, coronary events, coronary revascularization, stroke, Intermittent claudication, and congestive heart failure. The target serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level is < 100 mg in older patients with CAD, prior stroke, peripheral arterial disease, extracranial carotid arterial disease, abdominal aortic aneurysm, diabetes meilitus, and the metabolic syndrome. Statins are also effective in reducing cardiovascular events in older persons with hypercholesterolemia without cardiovascular disease. Consider using statins in older persons without cardiovascular disease but with a serum LDL cholesterol > or = 130 mg/dL, or a serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol < 50 mg/dL. Data from the Heart Protection Study favor treating patients at high risk for vascular events with statins regardless of age or initial serum lipids.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12939228
The risk of cardiovascular mortality is higher among black women than white women, and the reasons for this disparity are largely unexplored. We sought to evaluate differences in medical care and clinical outcomes among black and white women with established coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12940609
In recent reports, some kinds of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors were able to decrease proteinuria and to improve renal function. Here we aimed to clarify the effect of fluvastatin (an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor) on proteinuria and renal function in children with mild IgA nephropathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12941576
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder and the most prevalent cause of dementia with ageing. Pharmacological treatment of AD is based on the use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, which have beneficial effects on cognitive, functional, and behavioural symptoms of the disease, but their role in AD pathogenesis is unknown. Other pharmacological therapies are becoming available--including the recently approved drug memantine, an NMDA channel blocker indicated for advanced AD. Here, we review clinical features of the available cholinesterase inhibitors (donepezil, rivastigmine, and galantamine) including their pharmacological properties, the evidence for switching from one agent to another, "head to head" studies, and the emerging evidence for the use of memantine in AD. New therapeutic approaches--including those more closely targeted to the pathogenesis of the disease--will also be reviewed. These potentially disease modifying treatments include amyloid-beta-peptide vaccination, secretase inhibitors, cholesterol-lowering drugs, metal chelators, and anti-inflammatory agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12941579
The use of interferon beta and glatiramer acetate for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) has, to some extent, changed the course of the disease. The annual relapse rate of patients treated with these drugs is lower than that in placebo-treated patients, and more treated patients remain relapse-free compared with untreated patients. In addition, these compounds reduce the development of new lesions, as detected by MRI.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12943890
An improvement in myocardial longitudinal systolic velocities, assessed by pulsed-wave tissue Doppler imaging during low-dose dobutamine infusion, was observed at 6-month follow-up after 6 months of treatment with atorvastatin. Our findings indicate a favorable effect of atorvastatin on contractile reserve, possibly through an enhancement of flow-dependent coronary dilatation during stress.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12944570
Everolimus, a novel proliferation inhibitor and immunosuppressive agent, may suppress cardiac-allograft vasculopathy. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, clinical trial comparing everolimus with azathioprine in recipients of a first heart transplant.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12945474
In Belgium lipid-lowering drugs are reimbursed in primary and secondary prevention when after a non-specified diet of at least three months total cholesterol (TC) remains higher than 250 mg/dl or triglycerides (TG) remain higher than 200 mg/dl. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is only taken into account for the reimbursement of fibrates when it remains higher than 160 mg/dl in secondary prevention. The aim of this study was to evaluate the changes in fasting lipoproteins levels among patients who wait for the reimbursement of a lipid-lowering drug. Additionally, the parameters influencing the physicians' choice to prescribe a statin or a fibrate were analysed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12952839
Cholesterol modification reduces cardiovascular events in patients with atherosclerosis, including those with peripheral arterial disease. The purpose of this study was to determine whether cholesterol lowering with atorvastatin improves walking performance in patients with intermittent claudication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12953339
Hyperhomocysteinemia is regarded as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Lipid-lowering agents, such as fibrates, can modify homocysteine levels. However, less is known about the effect of statin therapy on homocysteine. The authors compared the effects of atorvastatin (40 mg/day), simvastatin (40 mg/day), and micronized fenofibrate (200 mg/day) on the serum concentrations of total homocysteine, vitamin B12, and folic acid in patients with primary hyperlipidemia. A total of 128 patients with primary hyperlipidemia (total cholesterol > 240 mg/dL and triglycerides < 350 mg/dL) were assigned to atorvastatin, simvastatin, or fenofibrate. Serum lipid and metabolic parameters were measured at baseline and at 6 and 12 weeks of treatment. Homocysteine correlated positively with serum creatinine and uric acid levels and inversely with serum folic acid levels. All treatment modalities reduced total, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and triglyceride concentrations. High-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels significantly increased only in the fenofibrate-treated patients (47.9 +/- 12.5 vs. 50.7 +/- 12.6 vs. 51.2 +/- 12.8 mg/dL, p < 0.01). Atorvastatin and fenofibrate treatment resulted in a significant reduction of serum uric acid levels (5.3 +/- 1.6 vs. 4.9 +/- 1.4 vs. 4.8 +/- 1.4 mg/dL, p < 0.0001 for atorvastatin; 5.6 +/- 1.6 vs. 4.3 +/- 1.4 vs. 4.4 +/- 1.4 mg/dL, p < 0.0001 for fenofibrate). Homocysteine levels were significantly increased only by fenofibrate (10.3 +/- 3.3 vs. 14.1 +/- 3.8 vs. 14.2 +/- 3.6 microU/L, p < 0.001) but did not change from baseline following statin treatment. Neither statins nor fenofibrate had any effect on serum vitamin B12 and folic acid levels. In contrast to fenofibrate, therapeutic dosages of atorvastatin and simvastatin have a neutral effect on serum homocysteine levels, which is in favor of their "cardioprotective" properties.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12954916
The treatment of hypercholesterolemia may be associated with greater noncardiac mortality. This current pilot study sought to determine which behaviors, if any, are associated with decreases in cholesterol level. Twelve subjects received one of two cholesterol-reducing drugs or placebo. Cholesterol and behavioral ratings were measured at baseline, 4, and 52 weeks with standardized scales. Cholesterol levels markedly declined with concomitant significant increases in impulsivity ratings at 4 weeks. At 52 weeks, the increase in impulsivity ratings was no longer apparent, but depression ratings showed a significant improvement. This pilot study, although limited in size, raises the possibility that cholesterol-lowering drugs are associated with mild, time-limited increases in impulsivity and with mild, time-delayed improvements in depression ratings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12957096
The lowering of serum cholesterol is increasingly recognised as essential in the prevention of coronary heart disease and other atherosclerotic disease. The success of statin trials and the need to deploy these drugs effectively in the population has led increasingly to the identification of many people whose serum cholesterol, triglycerides, and HDL-cholesterol require clinical assessment, and frequently treatment. Lipid disorders are mainly straightforward, but some are complex or resistant to simple treatment strategies. I have reviewed the clinical manifestations of disordered lipid metabolism (dyslipidaemia) and its management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12957104
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12957331
Eight healthy male volunteers, lumbar-punctured before and during simvastatin treatment, were phenotyped for CYP2D6 analysis of the debrisoquine metabolic ratio (the ratio between the urinary recovery of debrisoquine and its 4-hydroxy metabolite) after a single oral dose of debrisoquine. The mean cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of cholesterol and taurine did not differ before and during treatment. During (but not before) treatment taurine in the CSF correlated with the debrisoquine metabolic ratio (r=-0.93; P=0.0007) Our results might indicate an influence of CYP2D6 on the level of taurine in the CSF that was secondary to the change in plasma cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12957768
Treatment of hypercholesterolemia with statins is remarkably effective in cardiovascular prevention. This has led to the hypothesis that these drugs may act on the atherosclerotic plaque by mechanism(s) independent of the reduction of serum cholesterol levels. The aim of this study was to assess the total antioxidant activity of the most prescribed statins: fluvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12959299
In order to determine whether treatment of hyperlipidaemia with simvastatin impairs exercise stress responses and so may contribute to an excess of suicides and violent deaths, the effects of simvastatin 20 mg daily and placebo on exercise physiology were compared in 19 patients. After 6 weeks of treatment there was no evidence of reduced exercise capacity, or of reduced cortisol or catecholamine responses. It is concluded that treatment of hyperlipidaemia with an inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase does not significantly modify stress responses, and so the explanation for a possible increase in non-cardiac mortality must be sought elsewhere.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12963641
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) contribute to the development of heart failure. A potential source of myocardial ROS is the NADPH oxidase, which is regulated by the small GTP-binding protein rac1. Isoprenylation of rac1 can be inhibited by statin therapy. Thus, we examined ROS and rac1 in human failing myocardium and tested their regulation by statins in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12967330
Inflammation plays a central pathogenic role in the initiation and progression of coronary atheroma and its clinical consequences. Cytokines are the mediators of cellular inflammation and promote local inflammation in the arterial wall, which may lead to vascular smooth muscle apoptosis, degradation of the fibrin cap and plaque rupture. Platelet adhesion and thrombus formation then occur, resulting clinically in unstable angina or myocardial infarction. Recent studies have suggested that cytokines are pathogenic, contributing directly to the disease process. 'Anti-cytokine' therapy may, therefore, be of benefit in preventing or slowing the progression of cardiovascular disease. Both oestrogens and testosterone have been shown to have immune-modulating effects; testosterone in particular appears to suppress activation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Men with low testosterone levels are at increased risk of coronary artery disease. An anti-inflammatory effect of normal physiological levels of sex hormones may, therefore, be important in atheroprotection. In this Article, we discuss some of the mechanisms involved in atherosclerotic coronary artery disease and the putative link between testosterone deficiency and atheroma formation. We present the hypothesis that the immune-modulating properties of testosterone may be important in inhibiting atheroma formation and progression to acute coronary syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12967531
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12968198
Heart failure is a common medical condition affecting nearly 5 million people each year in the United States, of whom 500,000 are newly diagnosed. The impact of this disease on society and the health care system is immense. Inpatient and outpatient costs are approximately $40 billion annually, almost $500 million of which is spent on heart failure medications alone. Beyond the problem of financial costs, however, it is imperative for us as health care professionals to improve our ability to prevent disease progression, decrease morbidity and mortality, and optimize patients quality of life. The use of a broad spectrum of treatments is reviewed in the context of a patient case study. Primary data justifying the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, diuretics, digoxin, as well as beta blockers and spironolactone, is reviewed, with special reference to the stage of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12968995
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12970329
In view of the pro-oxidant and proinflammatory effects of angiotensin II, we have tested the hypothesis that valsartan, an angiotensin receptor blocker, may exert a suppressive action on reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) in mononuclear cells. Four groups of eight normal subjects were given 1) 160 mg daily of valsartan, 2) 80 mg daily of simvastatin, 3) 40 mg quinapril, or 4) no treatment. Fasting blood samples were obtained before treatment and at d 1, 8, and 14 (7 d after the cessation of the drug). After valsartan, ROS generation by polymorphonuclear cells and mononuclear cells fell significantly by more than 40% (P < 0.01). NF-kappa B binding activity and the expression of total cellular p65, a protein component of NF-kappa B, fell significantly (P < 0.01). The expression of inhibitor kappa B (I kappa B) increased significantly (P < 0.05). Plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration fell significantly (P < 0.01). All indices, except I kappa B, reverted toward baseline, 7 d after the cessation of the drug. I kappa B persisted in an elevated state. Neither quinapril nor simvastatin given for 7 d produced a suppression of ROS generation, intranuclear NF-kappa B, p65, or CRP, and these two agents did not alter cellular I kappa B either. The untreated controls also did not demonstrate a change in their ROS generation or NF-kappa B binding activity or plasma CRP concentration. We conclude that valsartan at a modest dose exerts a profound and rapid ROS and inflammation-suppressive effect that may be relevant to its potential beneficial effects in atherosclerosis, diabetes, and congestive cardiac failure. In contrast, quinapril and simvastatin produced no similar effect over the period of 1 wk. Our observations may also have implications to clinical situations in which a rapid antiinflammatory effect is required.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12970413
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are fatal, untreatable neurodegenerative diseases associated with the accumulation of a disease-specific form of prion protein (PrP) in the brain. One approach to TSE therapeutics is the inhibition of PrP accumulation. Indeed, many inhibitors of the accumulation of PrP associated with scrapie (PrP(Sc)) in scrapie-infected mouse neuroblastoma cells (ScN(2)a) also have antiscrapie activity in rodents. To expedite the search for potential TSE therapeutic agents, we have developed a high-throughput screening assay for PrP(Sc) inhibitors using ScN(2)a cells in a 96-well format. A library of 2000 drugs and natural products was screened in ScN(2)a cells infected with scrapie strain RML (Chandler) or 22L. Forty compounds were found to have concentrations causing 50% inhibition (IC(50)s) of PrP(Sc) accumulation of <or=10 microM against both strains. Seventeen had IC(50)s of <or=1 microM against both strains. Several classes of compounds were represented in the 17 most potent inhibitors, including naturally occurring polyphenols (e.g., tannic acid and tea extracts), phenothiazines, antihistamines, statins, and antimalarial compounds. These 17 compounds were also evaluated in a solid-phase cell-free hamster PrP conversion assay. Only the polyphenols inhibited the cell-free reaction, and their IC(50)s were near 100 nM. Several of the new PrP(Sc) inhibitors cross the blood-brain barrier and thus have potential to be effective after TSE infection reaches the brain. The fact that many are either approved human drugs or edible natural products should facilitate their use in animal testing and clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12972104
This analysis assessed the safety of atorvastatin in the 10- to 80-mg dose range using pooled data from 44 completed trials comprising 16,495 dyslipidemic patients treated with atorvastatin (n = 9,416), placebo (n = 1,789), and other statins (n = 5,290). A retrospective analysis was conducted and included treatment-associated adverse events, serious adverse events, and musculoskeletal and hepatic adverse events. Only 3% (n = 241) of atorvastatin-treated patients withdrew from studies due to treatment-associated adverse events, compared with 1% of those (n = 16) on placebo and 4% of those (n = 188) receiving other statins; the most frequently reported treatment-associated adverse events were related to the digestive system. Serious adverse events were rare and seldom led to withdrawal. Persistent elevations in hepatic transaminases to >3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were experienced by 0.5% (n = 47) of atorvastatin-treated patients. A persistent elevation in creatine phosphokinase (CPK) (>10 x ULN) was observed in only 1 atorvastatin-treated patient and was not associated with myopathy. The incidence of treatment-associated myalgia was low in the atorvastatin (1.9% [n = 181]), placebo (0.8% [n = 14]), and other statin (2.0% [n = 105]) groups, and was not related to the atorvastatin dose. No cases of rhabdomyolysis or myopathy were reported. Thus, the overall incidence of treatment-associated adverse events observed with atorvastatin did not increase in the 10- to 80-mg dose range, and was similar to that observed with placebo and in patients treated with other statins. Specific analysis of musculoskeletal and hepatic adverse events showed that these occurred infrequently and rarely resulted in treatment discontinuation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12972108
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12972114
Simvastatin significantly increased treadmill exercise time until onset of intermittent claudication from baseline by 54 seconds (a 24% increase, p <0.0001) at 6 months after treatment and by 95 seconds (a 42% increase, p <0.0001) at 1 year after treatment. At 6 months and 1 year after treatment with placebo, treadmill exercise time until onset of intermittent claudication was not significantly different from baseline exercise time.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12975259
Inflammation promotes acute coronary syndromes and ensuing clinical complications. Although statins reduce inflammatory markers in asymptomatic adults or in patients with stable angina, the effect of statins on the markedly heightened inflammation in patients with acute coronary syndromes is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 12975438
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 12975445
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 13129994
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 1341189
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of pravastatin in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia

Abstract for pubmed ID 1345159
1. Major risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) are smoking, blood pressure and blood cholesterol and they interact in a multiplicative fashion. Family history of premature coronary heart disease and lack of exercise also contribute. Obesity increases risk probably mainly by its effect on blood cholesterol and blood pressure. Heavy alcohol consumption is a risk factor for stroke. 2. Prevention may be opportunistic or in specially organized clinics, the latter being less likely to result in the attendance of high risk individuals. 3. Worthwhile reductions in cigarette smoking can be achieved by brief advice and follow-up. Literature on smoking and other aspects of prevention is available from the district health education department. 4. Risk scores can be used to calculate the risk of coronary heart disease. They can help to indicate the advisability of measurement of blood cholesterol and to focus limited resources on those at highest risk by helping to define a 'special care group'. 5. Indications for measuring blood cholesterol are: a family history of premature coronary heart disease or hyperlipidaemia, personal history of coronary heart disease, clinical evidence of raised lipids (xanthelasma, corneal arcus under 50, xanthomas at any age), a high risk of coronary heart disease according to a risk score. Many would also include those under treatment for hypertension and diabetes. 6. Dietary advice can moderately reduce blood cholesterol. The proportion of calories from fat should be reduced from the current average of around 40% to a maximum of 33%. Dietary advice should be tailored to the patient's current diet. An increase in vegetables and fruit can be generally advocated. 7. Regular exercise has a worthwhile role to play in prevention. Rapid walking, jogging and swimming may all be suitable, as may be heavy gardening and housework. 8. A small proportion of patients may require lipid-lowering drugs. These include resins (cholestyramine and colestipol), fibrates (eg bezafibrate and gemfibrozil) and more recently HMG CoA inhibitors (eg simvastatin). The HMG CoA inhibitors produce large falls in cholesterol and may become first line drugs in future. Because of the current controversy about the effect of lipid-lowering drugs on total mortality, many believe that they should be reserved for those at the highest risk, for example patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia or with pre-existing coronary heart disease and a high plasma cholesterol (> 7.8 mmol/L). 9. The special care group defined by the practice should be offered regular follow-up.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 14499232
Despite the importance of both lipid metabolism and physical activity to cardiovascular health, few studies have examined the effect of exercise training on vascular function in hypercholesterolaemic humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14500332
Most antiarrhythmic drugs are ion channel blockers, and to date, those tested in large randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials have shown no decrease in mortality outcome. This apparent lack of survival benefit may result from the significant liabilities associated with these agents that offset any long-term benefit. Despite the current success of implantable defibrillators and the future promise of gene therapy, there is still a pressing need for new antiarrhythmic drugs. An improved understanding of cardiac ion channels and novel approaches to target selection and compound screening will provide new opportunities for drug discovery in the near future. Here, we briefly review the multiple mechanisms of arrhythmia, the history of drug failures, and the possibilities that evolving technologies may provide in the search for more efficacious and safer antiarrhythmic drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14501025
Recruitment for the inaugural double-blind placebo-controlled trial investigating a cholesterol-lowering treatment for benefit in Alzheimer's disease (AD) (ADCLT) ended after obtaining 98 informed consents. Suspension of recruitment of the ADCLT occurred in concert with initiation of two separate multicenter trials testing similar hypotheses. Although occurring at very low rates (<2%), altered-chemistry adverse events requiring discontinuation of therapy (withdrawal AEs) are not unexpected with use of cholesterol-lowering statins. We suggest that exceptionally close monitoring for altered chemistry among individuals with AD should be undertaken in future statin treatment trials, as limited data from the ADCLT indicate that chemically based withdrawal AEs could be more prevalent among female AD patients. There was no apparent correlation between the occurrence of withdrawal-AE incidence and lower body mass among the female AD trial subjects and, therefore, probably was not a dose-related resultant. This might indicate that cognitively intact elderly women at risk for heart disease and those with clinically documented AD should not be presumed to be pharmocodynamically equivalent. Lipid profiles obtained at screening in the ADCLT are consistent with a possible difference between patients with current AD and those at risk for heart disease. Elevated cholesterol, increased cholesterol/high-density lipid (HDL) ratios, and elevated triglycerides are routinely observed among those at risk for heart disease; however, among ADCLT study participants, only cholesterol levels were increased while cholesterol/HDL ratio and triglyceride levels remained within normal limits.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14503013
Recent epidemiological reports suggest that statins, and possibly other lipid lowering agents, might be protective for Alzheimer disease, and for other types of dementia. Importantly, however, epidemiological reports of this type are susceptible to indication bias, i.e. people who elect to take lipid-lowering agents might be healthier than those who do not, so that it may be these other health factors which explain their lower risk of dementia. Limited clinical trials data support the notion that statins, in particular, have important effects on cerebral cholesterol metabolism, but the link to clinical effects in dementia has yet to be established, and the mechanisms by which lipid lowering agents might confer protective effects is unclear. Dedicated clinical trials are now under way, and their results are awaited with great interest.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14503906
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes in Australia has doubled over the past 20 years; more than 7% of Australian adults now have diabetes. An additional 16% of Australian adults have lesser abnormalities of glucose tolerance. Insulin resistance and increased cardiovascular risk occur in both these groups (the metabolic syndrome). 50% of cases of type 2 diabetes are undiagnosed; screening is indicated in everyone aged over 55 and in younger people with risk factors such as obesity, hypertension, family history or certain ethnic backgrounds. Dietary modification and increased physical activity have been shown to dramatically reduce the incidence of type 2 diabetes in those at high risk. General practitioners should target individuals at high risk, but this needs to be reinforced by community-wide preventive action. National prevention programs are needed, but GPs can contribute through screening and lifestyle advice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14504184
This study was aimed at verifying whether activation of platelets might represent a source of interleukin (IL)-1beta levels in hypercholesterolemia. To this purpose, we compared the effects of a short-term treatment with simvastatin or low-dose aspirin on circulating levels of this cytokine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14505289
In the context of the beneficial effects of statins, irrespective of the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level (LDL-C) in the Heart Protection Study and the relatively poor event reduction (24%-37%) in the LDL-C reduction trials, electron beam tomography plaque imaging has provided the necessary data to support a reorientation of traditional treatment paradigms. The prognostic superiority of calcified plaque quantitation to conventional risk factor assessment and the poor correlation between pretreatment standard lipid values and amount of plaque in individual patients, as well as between post treatment lipid changes and changes in calcified plaque burden, suggest the following: (1) significant calcified plaque shifts the asymptomatic patient from primary to secondary prevention status; (2) "abnormal" lipid values in individual patients are best defined by the level at which atherosclerosis develops; (3) non LDL-C disorders contribute to CAD and should be identified and treated; (4) plaque burden, rather than plasma lipid values, should be the target of therapy; and (5) adequacy of therapy is best evaluated with serial plaque imaging. Other treatment applications of plaque imaging include triage of patients for stress testing and evaluation of stress test results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14506118
In unstable coronary syndromes, catheter intervention is frequently preceded by antithrombotic treatment to reduce periprocedural risk; however, evidence from clinical trials to support antithrombotic pretreatment is sparse.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14509100
To update nurse practitioners (NPs) on the latest National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) guidelines for the management of high blood cholesterol in adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14511903
Older people can be regarded as a marginalised group within society from a number of perspectives including that of health. When it comes to the use of medication older people have suffered from a double whammy. Not only are they more at risk from the adverse effects of drugs but also their involvement in clinical trials has been limited so that rational prescribing both to maximise benefit and to reduce risk has been problematic. Their special problems have been recognised formerly by the Department of Health in its NSF for Older People [National Service Framework for Older People. Department of Health, London (2001a)], [Medicines and Older People. Implementing medicines-related aspects of the NSF for Older People. Department of Health (2001b)]. Early studies focussed on compliance, the avoidance of poly-pharmacy and the high prevalence of adverse effects of drugs and the reasons for this. Studies in long-stay patients showed dramatic differences in pharmacokinetics between such older people and young healthy volunteers. Initially such differences were ascribed to age alone and the overall message became "start low and go slow". Studies in healthy older people then revealed that age differences in drug metabolism were, as a rule, not so marked although clearance of renally excreted drugs was reduced in line with the age associated decline in renal function. Including older people in clinical trials poses challenges. Many traditional trialists do not have ready access to older people, co-morbidity and poly-pharmacy are common and most people feel reluctant to ask older people to take part in complex and potentially hazardous trials. Concern about compliance is unwarranted. Adverse events may be more serious. Thus in a younger patient postural hypotension may make a subject unsteady but in an older subject the unsteadiness may lead to a fall, the fall to a fracture, and the fracture to poor recovery. The choice of end-points is crucial. Although reduction of clinical events is clearly important, effects on quality of life become more important as natural life expectancy reduces. Although regulatory bodies state that they now evidence of effectiveness in older people before registration there are still many examples of arbitrary and illogical upper age limits in clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14515113
National performance measures monitor the proportion of diabetic patients with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels >/=130 mg/dL, but such simple intermediate outcomes measure poor control, not necessarily poor care. "Tightly linked" quality measures define good quality either by a good intermediate outcome (LDL <130 mg/dL) or by evidence of appropriate responses to poor control (eg, starting or optimizing medications for high LDL or not doing so in the face of contraindications).

Abstract for pubmed ID 14516878
This analysis was conducted to evaluate the effect of baseline triglyceride levels on lipid and lipoprotein changes after treatment with the combination of fluvastatin and fibrates. The analysis involved pooling data from 10 studies that included 1,018 patients with either mixed hyperlipidemia or primary hypercholesterolemia. Patients received a combination of fluvastatin and a fibrate (bezafibrate, fenofibrate, or gemfibrozil) from 16 to 108 weeks. The combination of fluvastatin and a fibrate improved lipid profiles, with reductions in triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and non-high-density lipoprotein (non-HDL) cholesterol that were dependent on baseline triglyceride levels. The greatest triglyceride reductions were observed in patients with high baseline triglyceride levels (> or =400 mg/dl) (41%, p <0.0001). The greatest LDL cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol reductions occurred in patients with normal baseline triglyceride levels (<150 mg/dl) (35% and 33%, respectively; p <0.0001). The combined fluvastatin-fibrate therapy was well tolerated. Two patients (0.2%) (1 patient on fluvastatin 80 mg + gemfibrozil 1,200 mg and 1 patient on fluvastatin 20 mg + fenofibrate 200 mg) had creatine kinase levels > or =10 times the upper limit of normal, 11 patients (1.1%) had an elevation in alanine transaminase >3 times the upper limit of normal, and 7 patients (0.7%) had elevations in aspartate transaminase >3 times the upper limit of normal. Combined fluvastatin-fibrate therapy takes advantage of the complementary effects of the 2 agents, with the extent of triglyceride, LDL cholesterol, and non-HDL cholesterol lowering dependent on baseline triglyceride levels. The combination of fluvastatin and fibrates was well tolerated with no major safety concerns.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14517149
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14517152
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14518081
To compare and describe the trends in the consumption of selected groups of cardiovascular drugs in several districts of the Czech Republic and counties of Wales in the period of 1997-2000.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14518613
Today, peripheral arterial disease (PAD) patients need effective medical care for an extended period of their lifetime. Therefore, different treatment modalities have to be tied sequentially into an effective therapeutic chain. First, preventive measures have to be reinforced and risk factors tightly controlled. Furthermore, antiplatelet agents have to be applied in every PAD patient to reduce the risk of cardiac and cerebral ischemic events, restenosis or reocclusion after revascularization, and possibly also progression of the PAD itself. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors should be entertained in high-risk groups such as PAD patients with diabetes. In the claudicant, exercise therapy should be strongly encouraged and vasoactive drugs considered for those who are not good candidates for either exercise training or revascularization. In patients with disabling claudication or critical limb ischemia, revascularization procedures are highly effective. Especially for high-grade stenoses or short arterial occlusions, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) should be the method of first choice followed by the best surgical procedure later on. To achieve good long-term efficacy, a close follow-up including objective tests of both the arterial lesion and hemodynamic status, surveillance of secondary preventive measures and risk factor control is mandatory.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14522569
Clopidogrel is a pro-drug which is converted to an active, unstable drug by cytochrome P450 (CYP). The active drug irreversibly blocks one specific platelet adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP) receptor (P2Y12). It has been recently suggested that the most abundant human CYP isoform, 3A4, activates clopidogrel. Since certain lipophilic statins (i.e. simvastatin, atorvastatin, lovastatin) are a substrate of CYP3A4, we were interested in potential drug interactions between clopidogrel and statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14525878
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14528286
Aberrations in cell cycle progression occur in the majority of human malignancies. The main pathway affected is the retinoblastoma (Rb) pathway. The tumor suppressor gene Rb is an important component in the G(1)/S transition and its function is abnormal in most human neoplasms. Loss in Rb function occurs by the hyperactivation of the cyclin-dependent kinases (cdk's). Therefore, modulation of cdk's may have an important use for the therapy and prevention of human neoplasms. Efforts to obtain small-molecule cdk modulators yielded two classes of modulators: direct and indirect modulators. Direct cdk modulators are small molecules that specifically target the ATP binding site of cdk's. Examples for this group include flavopiridol, roscovitine and BMS-387032. In contrast, indirect cdk modulators affect cdk function due to modulation of upstream pathways required for cdk activation. Some examples include perifosine, lovastatin, and UCN-01. The first example of a direct small-molecule cdk modulator tested in the clinic, flavopiridol, is a pan-cdk inhibitor that not only promotes cell cycle arrest but also halts transcriptional elongation, promotes apoptosis, induces differentiation, and has antiangiogenic properties. Clinical trials with this agent were performed with at least three different schedules of administration: 1-, 24- and 72-h infusions. The main toxicities for infusions >/=24-h are secretory diarrhea and proinflammatory syndrome. In addition, patients receiving shorter infusions have nausea/vomiting and neutropenia. A phase II trial of patients with advanced non-small-cell lung carcinoma using the 72-h infusion every 2 weeks was recently completed. The median overall survival for the 20 patients who received treatment was 7.5 months, a survival similar to that obtained in a randomized trial of four chemotherapy regimens containing platinum analogues in combination with taxanes or gemcitabine, or with gefitinib, a recently approved EGFR inhibitor for the treatment of advanced lung cancer. Based on these encouraging results, a phase III trial comparing standard combination chemotherapy versus combination chemotherapy plus flavopiridol is currently under investigation. The second example of direct small-molecule cdk modulator tested in clinical trials is UCN-01 (7-hydroxystaurosporine). UCN-01 has interesting preclinical features: it inhibits Ca(2+)-dependent PKCs, promotes apoptosis, arrests cell cycle progression at G(1)/S, and abrogates checkpoints upon DNA damage. The first phase I trial of UCN-01 demonstrated a very prolonged half-life. Based on this novel feature, UCN-01 is administered as a 72-h continuous infusion every 4 weeks (in second and subsequent cycles UCN-01 is administered as a 36-h infusion). Other shorter schedules (i.e. 3 h) are being tested. Dose-limiting toxicities include nausea/vomiting, hypoxemia, and insulin-resistant hyperglycemia. Combination trials with cisplatin and other DNA-damaging agents are being tested. Recently, phase I trials with two novel small-molecule cdk modulators, BMS 387032 and R-Roscovitine (CYC202), have commenced with good tolerability. In summary, novel small-molecule cdk modulators are being tested in the clinic with interesting results. Although these small molecules are directed towards a very prevalent cause of carcinogenesis, we need to test them in advanced clinical trials to determine the future of this class of agents for the prevention and therapy of human malignancies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14529367
The prediction of metabolic drug-drug interactions should include quantitative attributes, such as variability in the study populations, and the results should be presented in terms of probability and uncertainty. The simple algebraic equations used to calculate one mean value for the extent of drug-drug interaction are adequate for qualitative or semi-quantitative risk assessment. However, truly quantitative predictions continue to fail. The success of drug-drug interaction predictions requires understanding of the relationship between drug disposition and quantifiable influential factors on the change in systemic exposure. The complex interplay of influential factors, including variability estimates, on successful prediction of drug interaction have not been systematically examined. Therefore, physiologically relevant models of metabolic drug-drug interaction will likely play increasingly important roles in improving quantitative predictions and in the assessment of the influential factors underlying the interactions. The physiologically-based approach, with stochastic considerations, offers a powerful alternative to the empirical calculation of mean values. In addition to quantitative estimation of the interaction for assessing probability of risk, a reasonably validated predictive model is useful for prospective optimization of study designs. As a consequence, the definitive clinical trial would yield more meaningful information to support dosing recommendations. This review focuses on illustrating the importance of an integrated approach to building useful models for prediction of metabolism-based drug-drug interactions in human subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14529370
New chemical entities are routinely screened in vitro and in vivo for their ability to induce cytochrome P450s (CYP), other drug-metabolizing enzymes and possibly transporters in an attempt to more accurately predict clinical parameters such as drug-drug interactions and clearance in humans. Some of these potential therapeutic agents can cause induction of the metabolism of another molecule or auto-induction thereby increasing their own metabolism and elimination, as well as potentially any molecules metabolized by the same enzyme(s). Key CYPs in the 1A, 2B, 2C, and 3A families have all been shown to be inducible. It would be clearly advantageous to know the potential for a compound to induce drug metabolizing enzymes or transporters prior to clinical development, and many in vitro systems have been developed for this purpose. Newer computational technologies are also being applied in order to attempt to predict induction from the molecular structure alone before a molecule is even synthesized or tested. This review will cover the various in vitro and in silico methods developed for prediction of key inducers of CYPs and other proteins, as well as the limitations of such technologies and applications in the future.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14529594
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14550919
It has been assumed that statins work as a preventative drug for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although some epidemiological observations raise doubts to the effectiveness of statins for AD, many in vitro and clinical studies insist on the effectiveness of statins decreasing amyloid-beta (Abeta) levels in medium or blood. To explore the effect of pravastatin on Abeta production, we followed the longitudinal plasma levels of both Abeta 40 and Abeta 42 during the allocation of pravastatin in 46 patients with hyperlipidemia. We found no correlation between plasma cholesterol levels or the decreasing values of total cholesterol and those of Abeta 40 or Abeta 42. Patients having Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4) had higher low-density lipoprotein levels and lower Abeta 40 levels in plasma, suggesting ApoE4 seems to influence plasma Abeta levels via cholesterol metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14551064
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14557343
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14558433
The statins (3-hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors) represent drugs of first choice for treatment of hypercholesterolemia. The safety and efficacy of atorvastatin (CAS 134523-00-5), simvastatin (CAS 79902-63-9), lovastatin (CAS 75330-75-7), pravastatin (CAS 81093-37-0) and fluvastatin (CAS 93957-54-1) has been well documented. Statins decrease dose-dependently low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol as well as coronary events and total mortality. Clinical outcome data indicate that for simvastatin the lowest number of treated patients is needed to prevent one major coronary event (NNT 15). Based on an approximately 30% reduction of LDL (valid surrogate parameter) atorvastatin (5 mg/day) and simvastatin (10 mg/day) are the most potent agents whereas 40 mg of lovastatin or pravastatin and 60 mg of fluvastatin are needed to reach this "therapeutic target". While all statins share the same mode of action their pharmacokinetic properties and their susceptibility to drug interactions differ slightly. Agents inhibiting CYP3A4 (e.g. grapefruit juice, itraconazole, cyclosporine) should be discouraged if a patient is on atorvastatin, lovastatin or simvastatin. Likewise, fluconazole interferes with the CYP2C9-mediated hepatic elimination of fluvastatin. Moreover, coadministration of gemfibrozil should be avoided because it seems to increase the very low risk for statin-induced rhabdomyolysis. Several statins are available and their equieffective doses have been defined. Selection of a particular drug should be primarily based on clinical outcome data. However, costs and in certain situations the pharmacokinetic profile including the interaction potential of the statins should be taken into account.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14561376
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14563343
Recent data suggests that LDL particle concentration, as determined by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, may be associated with cardiovascular risk. We sought to determine the effect of randomization to pravastatin therapy on LDL particle concentration-NMR, among a primary prevention population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14564305
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14564313
The principle aim of the current study is to test the hypothesis that the long-term use of highly purified EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid: 1800 mg/day), in addition to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, is effective in preventing cardiovascular events in Japanese patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14564329
The benefit of beta-blockers post-myocardial infarction (MI) was established in the late 1970s. Major advances in the treatment of MI have since occurred. However, patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) were excluded from those trials. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of beta-blockers in post-MI patients with CHF receiving contemporary management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14568745
Stroke is a major public-health burden worldwide. Prevention programmes are essential to reduce the incidence of stroke and to prevent the all but inevitable stroke epidemic, which will hit less developed countries particularly hard as their populations age and adopt lifestyles of the more developed countries. Efficient, effective, and rapid diagnosis of stroke and transient ischaemic attack is crucial. The diagnosis of the exact type and cause of stroke, which requires brain imaging as well as traditional clinical skills, is also important when it will influence management. The treatment of acute stroke, the prevention and management of the many complications of stroke, and the prevention of recurrent stroke and other serious vascular events are all improving rapidly. However, stroke management will only be most effective when delivered in the context of an organised, expert, educated, and enthusiastic stroke service that can react quickly to the needs of patients at all stages from onset to recovery.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14568856
Statins reduce cardiovascular events to a greater extent than can be explained by their effect on lipids. Several studies have attempted to elucidate mechanisms by which statins reduce cardiovascular risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14568892
Recent studies suggested that some HMG-CoA reductase blockers might inhibit the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. Therefore, we analyzed how various statins together with a high loading dose of clopidogrel (600 mg) affect platelet aggregation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14573737
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14576420
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14579811
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14579987
As the epidemic of coronary artery disease rages on round the globe, research is always on to find suitable drugs to reverse the trend. While aspirin, beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors have been shown to reduce coronary mortality and morbidity, statins are rapidly coming to fore as another important cog in the wheel of primary and secondary prevention of coronary artery disease. Newer trial like Heart Protection Study suggests benefit of statin for high risk individuals, irrespective of initial serum cholesterol concentrations. This may be of great relevance in the Indian context taking into consideration the vast majority of coronary artery disease patients having normal to mildly elevated serum cholesterol in contrast to their western counterparts.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14581396
Inflammatory mediators that originate in vascular and extravascular tissues promote coronary lesion formation. Adipose tissue may function as an endocrine organ that contributes to an inflammatory burden in patients at risk of cardiovascular complications. In this study, we sought to compare expression of inflammatory mediators in epicardial and subcutaneous adipose stores in patients with critical CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14582446
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14582452
With the aging population and rising prevalence of vascular disease in developed and developing countries, increasing numbers of individuals are at risk of cognitive impairment. Despite the potential of the therapeutics that are currently under investigation, none have yet fulfilled their promise for the prevention and treatment of dementia. The term vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) describes individuals with significant cognitive impairment arising from vascular disease. Risk factors predisposing to stroke correlate with brain changes, cognitive loss and Alzheimer's disease pathology. The volume of the infarcts and white matter changes, silent lacunar infarcts, and global and regional brain atrophy may be imaged non-invasively, targeted as surrogates of the dementia processes and considered parameters to be targeted for interventional strategies. As the greatest chance to prevent cognitive impairment and its progression is by intervening in the early stages or prior to any change, the development of preventative therapeutics is an important strategy. Non-invasive magnetic resonance imaging techniques may help to identify a subgroup of patients in whom infarct prevention, via risk factor control, may be of paramount importance. As the pathophysiology of dementia becomes more fully understood by coupling neuropsychological with neuroimaging, genetic and pathological features, there is the potential for the establishment of diagnostic criteria of the early phase of VCI and the testing of novel interventional strategies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14582453
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM). The pathophysiology of CVD in diabetes involves traditional and novel cardiac risk factors, including hypertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, genetic factors, hyperglycemia, insulin resistance/hyperinsulinemia, metabolic abnormalities, oxidative/glycoxidative stress, inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, a procoagulant state and myocardial fibrosis. Specific vascular, myopathic and neuropathic alterations have been suggested to be responsible for the excessive cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in diabetes. These alterations manifest themselves clinically as coronary heart disease, congestive heart failure and/or sudden cardiac death. In order to contain the emerging epidemic of CVD in DM, diabetic patients should ideally have excellent glycemic control, a low normal blood pressure and low levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and be taking an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and aspirin, which may go some way to containing the emerging epidemic of CVD in DM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14582454
Acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT; Sterol O-acyltransferase/SOAT) is an intracellular enzyme that catalyzes the formation of cholesteryl esters from cholesterol and fatty acyl-coenzyme A. ACAT inhibitors reduce plasma cholesterol levels by suppressing absorption of dietary cholesterol and by suppressing the assembly and secretion of apolipoprotein B-containing lipoproteins such as very low density lipoprotein in liver and chylomicron in intestine. Moreover, ACAT inhibitors prevent the conversion of macrophages into foam cells in the arterial walls. Thus, ACAT inhibitors are under investigation for controlling hypercholesterolemia and the development of atherosclerosis. Some potent ACAT inhibitors have been tested for their efficacy and safety in humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14583366
This retrospective cohort study enrolled 8,768 male Veterans Administration patients with coronary heart disease who were prescribed statins from July 1, 1999, to June 30, 2000. After 18 months of follow-up, 71% of the patients had been dispensed >or=80% of the medication. Our population's persistence in using statins was higher than in other open-population cohorts but lower than in randomized controlled trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14583367
An economic analysis was conducted using clinical outcomes in the MIRACL trial that evaluated high-dose atorvastatin versus placebo for 16 weeks after acute coronary syndrome. The direct cost of atorvastatin was largely offset by the associated decrease in cardiovascular events. The net incremental cost of atorvastatin treatment was 157 dollars/patient with a cost-effectiveness ratio of 4,086 dollars/event avoided.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14583368
To find the clinical variables associated with atorvastatin's effects on bone metabolism markers, 35 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia were treated with atorvastatin for 24 weeks, and the levels of bone formation markers (bone-specific alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin) and resorption marker (urine collagen type-1 cross-linked N-telopeptide) were determined. Pretreatment vitamin D levels showed significant and positive associations with changes in 2 bone formation markers. The serial changes in 3 markers were favorable-increased bone formation markers and unchanged bone resorption marker-but the changes occurred only in patients with pretreatment vitamin D levels >50 pg/ml.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14601690
To determine whether a diet of high saturated fat and avoidance of starch (HSF-SA) results in weight loss without adverse effects on serum lipids in obese nondiabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14602771
Hypercholesterolemia is combined with enhanced lipid peroxidation, which can promote atherogenesis by inducing endothelial adhesion molecule expression. Statins may protect vascular endothelium in hypercholesterolemia by reducing enhanced plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein and decreasing oxidative stress. Herein, we describe increased circulating levels of soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, and E-selectin and total 8-iso-prostaglandin F(2 alpha) (8-iso-PGF(2 alpha)) concentrations, as indexes of endothelial activation and lipid peroxidation, respectively, in 67 hypercholesterolemic patients compared with 32 normocholesterolemic subjects. Significant cholesterol reductions were achieved in hypercholesterolemic patients after 6 months under either simvastatin (40 mg/d) or bezafibrate (800 mg/d) treatment, given according to a randomized double-blind trial. Simvastatin but not bezafibrate simultaneously reduced soluble adhesin and total 8-iso-PGF(2 alpha) concentrations also. Vitamin E supplementation (400 IU/d) further reduced indexes of endothelial activation and lipid peroxidation in simvastatin-treated patients and significantly reduced the above indexes in bezafibrate-treated patients. Changes in circulating soluble adhesion molecule levels were directly correlated with changes in total 8-iso-PGF(2 alpha) concentrations in simvastatin-treated patients also receiving vitamin E supplementation. All together, our data demonstrated that hypercholesterolemia was combined with endothelial activation and lipid peroxidation, which were efficaciously counteracted by simvastatin but not bezafibrate treatment. Thus, a different vascular protection can be achieved by different lipid-lowering treatments.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14604738
Ezetimibe is the first of a new class of antihyperlipidemic agents, the cholesterol-absorption inhibitors. It is indicated for monotherapy or in combination with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A-reductase inhibitors (statins) in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia, in combination with simvastatin or atorvastatin in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, and as monotherapy in patients with homozygous familial sitosterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14604742
In the main publication for LIPS (Lescol Intervention Prevention Study), a 22% relative risk (RR) reduction for major adverse cardiac events (MACE) was found among those who used fluvastatin after a successful first percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). However, intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis of clinical studies generally provides an observed treatment effect that is likely to underestimate what the treatment effect would be if compliance were perfect, because compliance in a clinical trial is invariably <100% during long-term follow-up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14605034
Central sleep apnea (CSA) associated with Cheyne-Stokes respiration in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) is thought to be an acquired pattern of respiratory control instability related, at least in part, to elevated sympathetic nervous system activity. The effect of restoring heart function to normal with heart transplantation in patients with CHF and CSA has only been reported within weeks of the transplant and with varying results. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the impact of successful heart transplant on sympathetic nervous system activity and CSA severity in patients with CHF.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14606112
To investigate a formalized therapeutic guideline for hyperlipidemic severe acute pancreatitis (HL-SAP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 14609996
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14611010
The commonest manifestations of cardiovascular disease, namely coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke, represent the two most common causes of death in the world today. Furthermore, cardiovascular diseases have the highest healthcare utilisation costs in most countries. Both primary and secondary prevention management strategies are essential. Although more than 200 risk factors for CHD have now been identified, the single most powerful predictor of CHD risk is abnormal lipid levels. The relative risk influences of the various lipid sub-fractions are described, with particular emphasis on LDL cholesterol, which represents the principal target for treatment in most management guidelines. Unfortunately, there remains considerable evidence of continued under-management of patients with elevated cholesterol and cardiovascular risk who are eligible for secondary prevention. The barriers contributing to such physician under-performance are numerous. The more recent recognition of the importance of identifying patients at enhanced risk, but without established disease (primary prevention), will require greatly familiarity with the clinical use of CHD risk scoring systems, most of which are based upon the Framingham equation. Special reference is made to groups at particular risk of CHD. In summary, the application of the enormous evidence-base for interventions in cardiovascular disease, especially over the treatment of elevated cholesterol, pose a huge challenge to primary and secondary care in most healthcare systems.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14613259
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14613355
Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) guidelines recommend specific treatment targets for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels according to an individual.s short-term and long-term risk for coronary heart disease (CHD). Therapeutic lifestyle changes are recommended for all patients at any level of risk for CHD. Although most patients will achieve some LDL-C lowering with lifestyle modification, ATP III recognizes that a majority of patients with dyslipidemia will require drug therapy to reach their LDL goal. Surveys of physicians. practices suggest that only a small percentage of patients enrolled in an active treatment program actually achieve their LDL-C target. In addition, other surveys suggest that not all patients who are treatment candidates are receiving assessment. From a medication perspective, either up-titration of statin dose or the use of drug combinations should further enhance the likelihood of achieving target lipid levels. Combination therapies that target both the endogenous and exogenous pathways of cholesterol synthesis are particularly attractive. This paper reviews the pharmacotherapeutic effects of combination therapy, summarizes the strengths and weaknesses of current lipid-lowering drug combinations, and identifies the potential contribution of the novel cholesterol absorption inhibitor, ezetimibe, to the LDL-C treatment algorithm.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14623791
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14626470
To review the effectiveness of strategies to improve the quality and efficiency of medication use in managed care organizations (MCOs).

Abstract for pubmed ID 14627172
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14627186
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14636780
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating disease of the CNS of unknown cause. Pathogenetic mechanisms, such as chemotaxis, subsequent activation of autoreactive lymphocytes, and skewing of the extracellular proteinase balance, are targets for new therapies. Matrix metalloproteinase gelatinase B (MMP-9) is upregulated in MS and was recently shown to degrade interferon beta, one of the drugs used to treat MS. Consequently, the effect of endogenously produced interferon beta or parenterally given interferon beta may be increased by gelatinase B inhibitors. Blockage of chemotaxis or cell adhesion molecule engagement, and inhibition of hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-coenzyme-A reductase to lower expression of gelatinase B, may become effective treatments of MS, alone or in combination with interferon beta. This may allow interferon beta to be used at lower doses and prevent side-effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14638524
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14638526
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14644934
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14645303
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14650474
The landmark Heart Protection Study (Lancet 2002; 360:7-22) found benefit in treating subjects at high risk of a coronary event with simvastatin 40 mg daily, regardless of baseline low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level and in all subgroups, including women and the elderly. The study found no benefit of simvastatin therapy in preventing noncardiac events (eg, dementia, osteoporotic fractures), and no negative effects, such as an increase in cancer, respiratory disease, or suicide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 14652963
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 14657430
Many employers and health plans have adopted incentive-based formularies in an attempt to control prescription-drug costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7475814
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7478073
The efficacy of Simvastatin to reduce plasma cholesterol is well documented. Other molecule within the lipo-lipoprotein family, such as, particularly, lipoprotein (a) -Lp(a)-, have been recently found to have a predictive and/or causative role in atherosclerosis. Based on the above consideration, we studied 20 patients (7 females and 13 males), mean age 52.4 +/- 14.2 years, affected by primary hypercholesterolemia to evaluate the effect of simvastatin on Lp(a), in addition to the classic lipidic parameters. Five weeks after suspension of lipid-lowering drugs and on a normal caloric-fat diet, were given 20 mg simvastatin/day for 12 months. Clinical and laboratory parameters, cholesterol (CH), triglycerides (TG), high density and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-CH and LDH-CH) measured enzymatically, apoproteins A1, B measured radial immunodiffusion technique and Lp(a) measured as apoprotein(a) with immunoradiometric assay and were evaluated before therapy and after 12 months of therapy. Simvastatin determined a significant reduction in total cholesterol and cholesterol-LDL (CH 327.7 +/- 44.4 vs 255.5 +/- 37.3, p < 0.0001; LDL-CH 257.1 +/- 60.9 vs 183.8 +/- 46.9, p < 0.0001) and a significant increase in HDL-CH (36.7 +/- 5.9 vs 40.2 +/- 5.7, p < 0.005); no variation was observed in triglycerides (TG) levels. Simvastatin therapy further determined a significant increase in Lp(a) plasma levels (43.8 +/- 25.6 vs 50.5 +/- 28.0, p < 0.02). The our data, in agreement with those documenting the beneficial effect of Simvastatin in greatly decreasing CH and LDL-CH, but point out the need for further studies concerning the long-ter effect of simvastatin on Lp(a), in order to fully establish its role in the secondary prevention of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7478355
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7482835
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7484829
The Prospective Pravastatin Pooling (PPP) project is a pooled evaluation of 3 large, placebo-controlled, randomized trials of cholesterol-lowering treatment with pravastatin. It is designed to more reliably evaluate the effect of treatment on coronary and all-cause mortality and on total coronary artery disease (CAD) events for specific populations of interest, including women and the elderly. The trials--Long-Term Intervention With Pravastatin in Ischemic Disease trial, the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events trial, and the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study--each have common design features, including drug, dose, and duration. The project prospectively defines the objectives, end points, and analytic plans in a protocol developed before results are known of any individual trial. More than 2,000 (or 10%) of the participants in the pooled data set are women, 1,841 are aged > or = 70 years at trial entry, and > 6,000 have a total cholesterol < 5.5 mmol/L (213 mg/dl). The mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level is 4.2 mmol/L (162 mg/dl). The mean blood pressure level is 134/81 mm Hg and 20% are current smokers. Half of the PPP participants have had a prior myocardial infarction. More than 7% have a history of diabetes and 26% have a history of hypertension. PPP is projected to have data on about 1,100 CAD deaths, 500 non-CAD deaths, and > 1,000 cancers by study completion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7484908
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7485045
The effect of estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) on 3-year changes in carotid intimal-medial thickness (IMT) was explored using serial B-mode ultrasound measurements collected during 1989-1993 as part of the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerotic Progression Study (ACAPS). Eligibility included increased IMT and elevated low density lipoprotein cholesterol. Of the 186 postmenopausal ACAPS women randomly assigned to receive either placebo or lovastatin, 34% reported use of ERT. Users tended to be younger than nonusers by an average of 3 years, to have more favorable high and low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, and to be more likely to have had hysterectomies. Baseline blood pressure, body mass index, and cross-sectional IMT were similar among ERT users and nonusers. In the placebo group, IMT tended to progress among ERT nonusers but to regress among ERT users: Mean covariate-adjusted progression rates were 0.015 +/- 0.007 mm/year versus -0.012 +/- 0.012 mm/year, respectively (p = 0.05). This difference appeared to be independent of lipoprotein concentrations. Lovastatin was associated with an approximately 25% lowering of low density lipoprotein cholesterol among both ERT users and nonusers and had a marked impact on IMT progression (p = 0.004) in these women. ERT appeared to have little additional effect on IMT in women assigned to lovastatin. ERT may reduce or halt the progression of early atherosclerosis in women not receiving active lipid-lowering medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7488443
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7489845
There is experimental evidence to suggest that hypercholesterolaemia may play a pathogenetic role in progressive glomerular injury. We investigated the effect of cholesterol-lowering therapy on the progression of diabetic nephropathy in 34 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Patients were randomly assigned in a single-blind fashion to treatment with either lovastatin, an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor (n = 16; mean dose 30.0 +/- 12.6 mg/day) or placebo (n = 18) for 2 years. Renal function was assessed by serially measuring the serum creatinine, glomerular filtration rate (using Cr51-EDTA), and 24-h urinary protein excretion. Lovastatin treatment was associated with significant reductions in total cholesterol (p < 0.001), LDL-cholesterol (p < 0.001) and apo B (p < 0.01), the reductions at 24 months being 26, 30 and 18%, respectively. Beneficial effects on serum triglyceride, HDL-cholesterol and apo A1 levels were also observed. Lp(a) showed no significant change in both groups. Glomerular filtration rate deteriorated significantly in the placebo group after 24 months (p < 0.025) but showed no significant change in the lovastatin-treated patients. The increase in serum creatinine was statistically significant (p < 0.02) in placebo-treated patients at 12 and 24 months, and in the lovastatin group after 24 months. Twenty-four hour urinary protein excretion increased in both groups (p < 0.05). Lovastatin treatment was not associated with significant elevations in liver or muscle enzymes. We conclude that effective normalisation of hypercholesterolaemia may retard the progression of diabetic nephropathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7494938
Hypercholesterolaemia therapy should begin with implementation of a suitable diet in order to achieve optimum weight and reduce the intake of saturated fats. Often, however, a dietary regime is not sufficient to decrease cholesterol levels in hypercholesterolaemic patients and drugs must also be used. Some of the pharmacological options available act principally on LDL cholesterol, whereas others have more effect on triglyceride rich particle. HMGCoaA reductase inhibitors exert the greatest effect on plasmatic LDL cholesterol levels and are therefore recommended in cases of moderate or severe hypercholesterolaemia, particularly in the secondary prevention of ischaemic cardiopathy. Comparing the three statin drugs, lovastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin, the latter has recently been shown in study 4S to be effective in reducing global and coronary mortality in patients with a history of coronary heart disease. In addition to their action on LDL cholesterol, these drugs also increase HDL cholesterol, reduce triglycerides and have a beneficial effect on some of the fundamental mechanisms involved in the development of arteriosclerosis. Ion-exchange resins moderately reduce cholesterol levels, thus are used in young people or in combination with other drugs when a further reduction of LDL cholesterol is required. Their main drawback, however, is that they can often cause digestive intolerance. Primary prevention trials have shown that fibrates also reduce mortality by coronary heart disease but have no effect on global mortality. They are well tolerated and are used in the treatment of mixed hyperlipaemia. Other products, such as probucol and oestrogens, are also used but only under specific circumstances.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7494939
In the recently reported Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), 4,444 men and women between 35 and 70 years of age who had coronary heart disease and plasma total cholesterol concentrations of 212 to 310 mg per deciliter (5.5 to 8.0 mmol/l) received simvastatin or placebo for 5.4 years; in the treatment group, mortality from coronary heart disease was 42 percent lower and mortality from all causes was 30 percent lower. Further analysis of the relation between the risk of major coronary events and baseline cholesterol levels in patients randomised to placebo or simvastatin therapy in the study showed that simvastatin significantly reduced the risk of major coronary events in all quartiles of baseline total, high-density-lipoprotein, and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, by a similar amount in each quartile. Clearly, cholesterol-modifying interventions can substantially improve the outlook for patients with coronary heart disease and should be considered in identification and treatment of patients with established coronary heart disease. The available data from secondary intervention trials indicates that all patients with documented ischemic heart disease should be offered a reliable assessment of plasma total cholesterol. However, since the impact of simvastatin on CHD seems to begin after about one year of therapy it would be reasonable to exclude very old persons and patients with serious disease with a limited life-expectancy. As a consequence of the 4S data it should be recommended that all the patients in question, who after lifestyle modifications and non-pharmacological risk factor modification still have total cholesterol levels above 200 mg per deciliter (5.2 mmol) should be offered treatment with a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7500065
Animal experiments and epidemiological studies have suggested that coronary disease could be prevented, arrested, or even reversed by maintaining total serum cholesterol levels below 150 mg/dL (3.88 mmol/L). In 1985, we began to study how effective one physician could be in helping patients achieve this cholesterol level and what the associated effect of achieving and maintaining this cholesterol level has on coronary disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7500507
To determine if lowering elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels offsets the adverse effect of raised lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]) levels on coronary artery disease (CAC) in men.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7502550
Inhibitors of the HMG-CoA reductase have been shown to further reduce the biliary cholesterol saturation in patients treated with oral bile acids for cholesterol gallbladder stones. It was the aim of our study to evaluate the efficacy of simvastatin in addition to ursodeoxycholic acid in the dissolution of gallstone fragments after shock wave lithotripsy and adjuvant bile acid dissolution therapy. Eighteen patients with a single radiolucent gallbladder stone and a serum cholesterol of more than 250 mg/dl were randomly assigned to receive either ursodeoxycholic acid alone (750 mg per day, group A, n = 9) or in combination with simvastatin (20 mg per day, group B, n = 9) for the dissolution of the gallstone fragments generated by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. The two groups were well matched regarding their baseline characteristics. At the primary end point of the study 6 months after lithotripsy, there was no difference between the groups in the rate of gallstone disappearance with 4 of 9 patients being stone free in each group. As evaluated by life table analysis, even further follow-up showed no significant difference between the groups (P = 0.8). In group B, serum cholesterol levels decreased by 22% at 3 months (P = 0.01 vs. baseline) and by 24% at six months (P = 0.02) during treatment while no significant change was observed in group A. With both regiments, no adverse effects were observed. While simvastatin added to ursodeoxycholic acid resulted in a decrease of elevated serum cholesterol levels in gallstone patients, it did not enhance stone disappearance after shock wave lithotripsy and adjuvant bile acid dissolution therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7503003
The Felodipine Atherosclerosis Prevention Study is designed to evaluate the efficacy of the calcium antagonist felodipine ER and combined felodipine/simvastatin therapy on retarding the progression of atherosclerosis, estimated by serial changes in coronary calcium evaluated by noninvasive electron beam computed tomography. Subjects include 180 men and women aged 40 to 69 and 50 to 69 years, respectively, with moderate type IIa dyslipidemia, with either cardiovascular disease or risk factors. All subjects receive simvastatin lipid-lowering therapy, and are randomized either to felodipine or placebo for a treatment period of 2 years. Monitoring of blood chemistry, measures of lipids and apolipoproteins, blood pressure, evaluation of symptoms, and interim clinical event monitoring are done at routine follow-up visits. Baseline and 2-year follow-up electron beam computed tomography, measuring changes in total calcium score, area, and mass, evaluate the effects of intervention on the progression of calcified atherosclerosis. The results from the Felodipine Atherosclerosis Prevention Study will provide valuable information about the effect of felodipine alone and in combination with simvastatin on progression of calcified atherosclerosis evaluated noninvasively.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7517829
There are few angiographic trials of cholesterol lowering in women. Two trials have included a sufficient number of women for meaningful assessment of lesion change, as determined by quantitative coronary angiography. In the University of California, San Francisco Specialized Center of Research in Arteriosclerosis (UCSF SCOR) trial, 72 patients (57% women) with familial hypercholesterolaemia (90% of whom had no overt coronary heart disease) were randomised to receive either diet and intensive drug therapy (combinations of colestipol, nicotinic acid and lovastatin) or diet and modest doses of colestipol, according to baseline low density lipoprotein cholesterol level. Coronary angiograms were obtained at 2-year intervals. Change in percentage area of stenosis (the primary end-point) in women receiving intensive drug treatment was -2.06% compared with +1.07% for the controls (p = 0.05). For the intensively treated men, corresponding values were -0.88% compared with +0.41% for the controls (difference not significant). In a recently completed trial in Canada, 269 men and 62 women with established coronary heart disease were randomised to receive either diet alone, or diet and lovastatin (up to 80 mg daily). In men, the increase in percentage diameter of stenosis was reduced by 43% (p = 0.05), and in women by 40% (not significant). By contrast, new lesions appeared in 4% of women assigned to intensive drug treatment, compared with 45% of those randomised to diet (p < 0.001). In men, new lesions appeared in 18% and 29% of patients, respectively (p = 0.047). These data suggest that coronary artery lesions in women respond at least as well as those in men to cholesterol lowering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7517835
This multicentre open 6-week study evaluated the efficacy, safety and tolerability of fluvastatin, the first fully synthetic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitor, in elderly women with type IIa hypercholesterolaemia. After a 4-week single-blind placebo period, 22 elderly women (mean age 68 +/- 5 years) with primary hypercholesterolaemia [low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol > 160 mg/dl] were enrolled in the trial. Fluvastatin 40 mg was administered once in the evening. At baseline, and after 3 and 6 weeks of treatment, total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoproteins B (apo B) and A-I (apo A-I) were measured. Safety and tolerability were assessed by monitoring routine laboratory parameters and by recording spontaneously reported side effects. The mean (+/- SD) baseline total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL cholesterol, apo B and apo A-I levels were 325 +/- 43, 236 +/- 43, 128 +/- 56, 61 +/- 16, 221 +/- 60 and 164 +/- 28 mg/dl, respectively. After 6 weeks, fluvastatin significantly (p < 0.001, ANOVA test) reduced total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and apo B levels by 22%, 29% and 23%, respectively. These significant reductions were already reached at week 3 (total cholesterol, -21%; LDL cholesterol, -27%). The total cholesterol: HDL cholesterol ratio was reduced by 22% at week 3 and by 21% at week 6 (from 5.3 to 4.2). 78% of the patients showed a reduction > or = 20% for LDL cholesterol. Triglycerides were reduced by 16% (not significant).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7517836
Women with primary hypercholesterolaemia are often considered for lipid-lowering drug therapy at a later age than men. With regard to the prevention of cardiovascular morbidity, women can expect to receive the same benefits from lipid-lowering treatment as men. Thus, it is of interest to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the new lipid-lowering agent fluvastatin in women. A retrospective analysis was made on the basis of data from controlled clinical trials in which 1815 patients were treated with fluvastatin at a daily dose of > or = 20 mg, and 783 patients received placebo. 782 of the fluvastatin-treated patients (43.1%) and 315 patients on placebo (40.2%) were women. Within these groups, 577 patients (73.8%) treated with fluvastatin and 183 patients receiving placebo (78.4%) were at least 50 years of age. The effect of fluvastatin 40 mg/day on low density lipoprotein (LDL) and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was more favourable in women than in men. In women, the change from baseline was -26.7% for LDL cholesterol and 5.3% for HDL cholesterol. In men, the equivalent changes from baseline were -23.8% and 4.0%, respectively. All changes from baseline were highly significant (p < 0.001). Fluvastatin lowered triglycerides to a similar extent in women and men (7.1% vs 6.9%, respectively). More women than men experienced a confirmed increase in aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) when receiving fluvastatin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7521386
A rapid method for quantifying the low-abundant mRNAs of the low density lipoprotein receptor and the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase by competitive polymerase chain reaction is presented. This approach requires neither special labeling nor blotting procedures. For each analysis, a defined amount of total cellular RNA is co-reverse transcribed and co-amplified with a titration series of in vitro synthesized competitor RNA that carries an internal deletion. The equivalence point, which defines the amount of specific RNA in the sample, can be scored in ethidium bromide-stained agarose or polyacrylamide gels of the reaction products. As an example, responses to pravastatin, a competitive inhibitor of the HMG-CoA reductase, in a human tumor cell line were analyzed with this new technique. As a control, the expression of the unregulated gene, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was measured in parallel using the same methodology. The results obtained were compared with those obtained by conventional Northern blotting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7555484
To determine whether elevated levels of cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients could be decreased by policosanol, a new cholesterol-lowering drug. NIDDM predisposes patients to coronary artery disease (CAD) through the direct action of hyperglycemia on the arteries as well as the dyslipidemia induced by NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7555549
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7562885
Plasma lipids, lipoproteins and apolipoproteins were studied before and during 6 months of pravastatin administration in patients with hypecholesterolaemia. After a 1 month placebo run-in period, the patients were treated double-blind either with placebo (n = 25) or with pravastatin (n = 25) for 6 months. Placebo or pravastatin 10 mg during the first month, 20 mg during the second month and 40 mg during the additional 4 months was administered once daily in the evening. Compared with the placebo group the plasma concentration of total cholesterol and phospholipids, free cholesterol and cholesterol esters as well as the plasma LDL-cholesterol and LDL-phospholipids were decreased during 6 months of pravastation therapy. No changes in plasma VLDL-, HDL-, HDL2-, or HDL3-cholesterol, -phospholipids or -triglycerides were observed in the pravastatin-treated patients. A decrease in the plasma level of apolipoprotein B and of LDL-apo B, but not of VLDL-apo B, was observed during pravastatin therapy; the plasma apolipoprotein AI and AII levels as well as HDL2- and HDL3-apo AI and apo AII levels remained, however, unchanged. Plasma lipoprotein Lp(a) did not change during pravastatin therapy whereas the plasma lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase activity (LCAT) increased. In conclusion, treatment of hypercholesterolaemic patients with pravastatin results in a decrease in the plasma concentration of total and free cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, LDL-apo B, phospholipids and cholesterol esters and in an increase in plasma LCAT activity. Plasma Lp(a), HDL-cholesterol and triglyceride levels remained, however, unchanged.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7563487
To assess the evidence that lipid lowering prevents coronary heart disease (CHD) events in women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7566020
Lowering the blood cholesterol level may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease. This double-blind study was designed to determine whether the administration of pravastatin to men with hypercholesterolemia and no history of myocardial infarction reduced the combined incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarction and death from coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7566029
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7566298
Apolipoprotein (a)-Lp(a)-is reported to be an independent risk factor for coronary artery disease and for hemodialysis (HD) access occlusion. Homology with plasminogen may predispose to thrombosis. High concentrations usually have been reported in patients on HD and on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), but near-normal values in many kidney transplants (TP). We used Pharmacia immunoradiometric assay in 52 patients on HD, 58 on CAPD, 94 after TP, and 56 controls. The Lp(a) mean levels for CAPD, HD, TP, and control groups were 738, 647, 348, and 368 U/l and the medians were 542, 537, 96 and 143 U/l, respectively. The means and medians for CAPD and HD were significantly greater than those for TP and controls (p < 0.003 for means and < 0.005 for medians). We found no significant difference between: (1) Lp(a) means or medians comparing HD and CAPD or TP and controls; (2) Lp(a) means for the 33 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and the 171 without; (3) number of occlusions of HD fistulae or grafts in patients with high Lp(a) values and without; (4) mean Lp(a) for CAPD patients on gemfibrozil and also for TP patients on 3-hydroxy-methylglutaryl coenzyme 1 reductase inhibitors, or diet alone, before and after treatment, and (5) mean Lp(a) values for HD and CAPD patients with and without myocardial infarction. Lp(a) did not correlate significantly with fractional shortening or left ventricular end systolic or diastolic diameter by echocardiogram or with ejection fraction. For TP patients, Lp(a) and serum creatinine correlated (p = 0.004), and mean Lp(a) for 71 TP on ciclosporin A exceeded that for the other 23 patients (p < 0.03). Lp(a) fell in 13 of 14 patients after TP (mean fall 77%). The dominant Apo(a) isoform in 10 of 13 patients on CAPD or HD with high Lp(a) values was the equivalent of S2 (Utermann). Lp(a) in HD or CAPD is often elevated and regulated by both genetic and renal failure factors, but falls after TP with return of renal function and mainly genetic regulation. Lp(a) was not a risk factor for coronary artery disease in HD or CAPD patients and did not fall significantly with two drugs or diet.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7568903
The vascular endothelium plays a central role in the regulation of vascular function. In particular, the local release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) regulates vascular tone and prevents platelet adhesion to the vascular wall. Impairment of EDRF action develops early in atherosclerosis and, in part, contributes to platelet deposition and vasospasm involved in the clinical expression of coronary artery disease. Recent evidence suggests that an imbalance between vascular oxidative stress and antioxidant protection is involved in the development of this vascular dysfunction. In this report, the relation between oxidative stress, atherosclerosis, and abnormal EDRF action is reviewed with particular attention to the effects of antioxidant supplementation in animal models of atherosclerosis and hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7570232
To perform a comparative pharmaco-economic assessment of two HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7570971
A single, blinded placebo-drug trial was conducted to study the efficacy and safety of fluvastatin, a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, in treating dyslipoproteinemia in 16 renal transplant recipients who had been on an immunosuppressive regimen that included cyclosporine (CsA). They were studied for 32 consecutive weeks, with 4 weeks of baseline treatment, 4 weeks of placebo, 12 weeks of treatment with fluvastatin 20 mg daily, and 12 weeks of fluvastatin 40 mg daily. Blood samples were obtained every 4 weeks for measurement of the lipoprotein profiles, which included total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride, low density lipoprotein (LDL)-, high density lipoprotein (HDL)-, HDL2-, HDL3- and very low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (C), apolipoprotein (Apo) A-1, Apo B, and lipoprotein(a). Fifteen patients completed the trial. After 12 weeks of treatment, fluvastatin 20 mg significantly reduced TC by 13.4% (from 6.7 +/- 0.5 [mean +/- SEM] to 5.8 +/- 0.2 mmol/L), LDL-C by 22% (from 4.1 +/- 0.3 to 3.2 +/- 0.2 mmol/L), and Apo B by 13.2% (from 159.6 +/- 8.8 to 138.6 +/- 9.2 mg/dl) (P < 0.005). The subsequent 12-week treatment of fluvastatin 40 mg significantly reduced TC by 16.4% to 5.6 +/- 0.3 mmol/L, LDL-C by 29.3% to 2.9 +/- 0.2 mmol/L, and Apo B by 18.2% to 130.6 +/- 5.5 mg/dl (P < 0.00005). There was no significant change in levels of other lipoproteins, including lipoprotein (a). There were no significant changes in the whole blood trough CsA concentrations, renal and liver function tests, and serum creatine phosphokinase level during treatment when compared with baseline and placebo. No patient complained of myalgia or failed to complete the study due to side effects of the drug. Fluvastatin appears to be safe and effective in treating dyslipoproteinemia in renal transplant recipients who are maintained on CsA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7573090
Patients with type I and type II diabetes mellitus have an increased risk of coronary heart disease. In many diabetics, hypercholesterolemia is present and further exacerbates this risk. We investigated the efficacy and safety of pravastatin in the treatment of patients with type I or type II diabetes mellitus and hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7575771
The long-term efficacy and tolerability of simvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-co-enzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, was assessed during a 24-month follow-up period in 168 elderly hypercholesterolemic patients. After completing a 4 week double blind dose ranging study with simvastatin, 47 males and 122 females over 62 years of age with type II hyperlipidemia, a total cholesterol level above 6.5 mmol/l and clinically manifest cardiovascular disease were included in this extended study. A total of 159 patients completed the 12-month follow-up period and 141 patients were monitored over the full 24 months. All patients were started on 10 mg simvastatin once daily and the dosage was increased until the target levels of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol between 2.3 mmol/l (90 mg/dl) and 3.6 mmol/l (140 mg/dl) were reached. Fifty percent of patients reached the targeted LDL cholesterol goal of < 3.6 mmol/l (140 mg/dl) during the study. At study completion, 65 patients (39%) were taking 40 mg simvastatin per day, 56 patients (33%) 20 mg, 42 patients (25%) 10 mg and 5 patients (3%) only used 5 mg per day. Sixteen patients (9%) received concomitant lipid lowering therapy. Over 2 years, the mean decrease in LDL cholesterol ranged from 36% to 38%, the median decrease in triglycerides was 12% to 19% and the mean increase in high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol ranged from 9% to 10%, respectively. Seven patients discontinued simvastatin because of adverse clinical or laboratory events, but only in two (1.1%) was this considered to be drug-related. Side-effects were mild and most frequently gastrointestinal in nature. Mean changes in asparate aminotransferase (AST) were not significantly different from zero and mean changes in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and creatine phosphokinase (CPK) showed a small increase. We conclude that simvastatin is an efficacious and well-tolerated treatment for hypercholesterolemia in elderly individuals for extended periods.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7578166
Hypercholesterolemia, a common problem after heart transplantation, may be important in the genesis and progression of allograft coronary artery disease. The current study was performed to compare the efficacy of gemfibrozil, simvastatin, and cholestyramine for cholesterol lowering in heart transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7583826
Drug-drug, drug-food, and drug-disease interactions involving hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors are reviewed. The four available HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors-lovastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, and fluvastatin-have different potentials for drug interactions, probably because of their different pharmacokinetic characteristics. Interactions of some of these cholesterol-lowering agents with cyclosporine, erythromycin, high-dose niacin, or gemfibrozil may produce myopathy with or without rhabdomyolysis. Interactions with other commonly prescribed agents, such as bile acid sequestrants, coumarin anticoagulants, and cardiovascular drugs, may alter the pharmacokinetics of either drug, but the clinical significance is generally minor. Food may affect plasma lovastatin concentrations, systemic pravastatin bioavailability, and the maximum serum concentration (Cmax) and time to achieve Cmax for fluvastatin. Hepatic dysfunction may influence the pharmacokinetics of pravastatin; all HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are contraindicated in patients with liver disease or unexplained elevations in serum aminotransferases. Severe renal insufficiency may necessitate dosage modification in lovastatin recipients. Renal dysfunction seems to affect the pharmacokinetics of pravastatin, simvastatin, and fluvastatin only minimally, but caution is still warranted. Although the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors rarely have severe adverse effects, they may interact, in some cases dangerously, with other drugs, with food, and with disease states.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7585842
In this pilot study, 12 patients (6 men, 6 postmenopausal women) with hypercholesterolemia were treated with low-dose (5 mg/d) simvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, for 4 weeks. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) samples were isolated at the beginning (week 0) and at the end (week 4) of the treatment regimen. Simvastatin caused significant decreases of total cholesterol (-18.1%), LDL cholesterol (-27.6%), and apolipoprotein B (-21.8%), and significantly reduced total cholesterol, free cholesterol, cholesterol esters, phospholipids, and protein in LDL without significantly changing the component ratios and fatty acid levels of LDL. However, simvastatin therapy had no major effects on either antioxidant levels in LDL or the oxidative susceptibility of LDL. We conclude that low-dose simvastatin significantly reduces LDL cholesterol levels without increasing the oxidative susceptibility of LDL or decreasing the antioxidant levels of LDL, and thus may reduce the risk of coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7585861
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7586300
Hypercholesterolemia is a risk factor for coronary disease, and platelet reactivity is increased with hypercholesterolemia, suggesting a prethrombotic risk. The aim of this study was to measure mural platelet thrombus formation on an injured arterial wall in a model simulating vessel stenosis and plaque rupture in hypercholesterolemic coronary disease patients before and after cholesterol reduction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7586338
Although coronary disease is the leading cause of death in women and its clinical features differ from those in men, very few women have been included in angiographic trials of cholesterol lowering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7586340
It has been documented that the HMG coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, or statins, can decrease cardiovascular events and mortality in patients with clinical coronary disease and moderately to severely elevated lipid levels. Additional data are required to demonstrate a reduction of vascular events in coronary patients with less than severely elevated lipid levels and in subgroups of this population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7588915
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7589011
We studied six patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) before and after 8 weeks of treatment with simvastatin (40 mg day-1), an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-Coenzyme A. Simvastatin decreased plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol by 43% (P = 0.002), triglycerides by 15% [corrected] (P = 0.05) and mevalonic acid (a measure of in vivo cholesterol synthesis) by 20% (P = 0.002); high-density lipoprotein cholesterol increased by 17% (P = 0.02). The hepatic secretion rate of very-low-density lipoprotein apolipoprotein B-100 (VLDL apoB) was measured directly using a primed, constant intravenous infusion of 1-[13C]-leucine with monitoring of the isotopic enrichment of apoB by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry; fractional secretion rate (FSR) was derived using a monoexponential function. Simvastatin decreased the FSR, ASR and pool size of VLDL apoB by 17% (14.3 (SEM 3.6)) vs. (11.9 (SEM 3.5) pools day-1, P = 0.10), 83% (51.4 (SEM 17.9) vs. (8.6 (SEM 1.4), P = 0.007 mg kg-1 day-1) and 65% (234.2 (SEM 30.4) vs. 82.6 (SEM 24.0) mg, P = 0.02), respectively. The change in the ASR of VLDL apoB was significantly correlated with the change in plasma LDL cholesterol concentration (P = 0.04), but not with the change of triglyceride or mevalonic acid. We conclude that the hepatic secretion of VLDL apoB in FH is decreased by simvastatin, which may partly explain the fall in plasma cholesterol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7589044
Hypercholesterolaemia is a risk factor for atherosclerosis and induces endothelial dysfunction. Endothelial dysfunction may increase vascular tone and arterial stiffness and as a consequence may decrease arterial distensibility (DC) and arterial compliance (CC). It is hypothesized that lipid-lowering therapy may enhance DC and CC. Therefore, the present study investigates the effect of lipid-lowering therapy with pravastatin on the haemodynamics, DC and CC of the elastic common carotid artery (CCA), and the muscular femoral (FA) and brachial (BA) arteries in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia. After an 8-week placebo run-in period with a low-cholesterol diet, 19 patients with total cholesterol concentrations of between 6.5 and 9.0 mmol.l-1 and triglyceride concentrations < 4 mmol.l-1 entered a double-blind placebo controlled crossover study. Patients received pravastatin 40 mg o.d. or placebo, each for 8 weeks. Throughout the study the lipid-lowering diet was continued. With pravastatin, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and triglycerides were decreased (total cholesterol 26%, LDL-C 35%, triglycerides 16%), while high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) was not changed. Other laboratory values remained within the normal range. Blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac function and systemic vascular resistance were not influenced by pravastatin. Compared to placebo, diameter, distensibility and compliance of all arteries were not statistically significantly changed with pravastatin. These data suggest that, in patients with mild to moderate primary hypercholesterolaemia, short-term lowering of plasma cholesterol does not alter the haemodynamics and vessel wall properties of large arteries.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7594023
This study was designed to evaluate the effect of pravastatin on progression of coronary atherosclerosis and ischemic events in patients with coronary artery disease and mild to moderate hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7598133
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7605354
Our purpose was to assess the effect of apolipoprotein (apo) E and apo A-IV isoform variation on low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowering response to the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, pravastatin. Plasma samples were obtained from participants (apo E, n = 97; apo A-IV, n = 144) in the PLAC-I (Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in Coronary Arteries Study-1). The mean LDL cholesterol reduction in these subjects who were randomized to pravastatin 40 mg/day was 28%. Subjects with the APOE*2 allele (n = 12) had significantly (P = 0.04) greater reductions at 36% than subjects homozygous for the APOE*3 allele (n = 66, 27%) or those with the APOE*4 allele (n = 19, 26%). No significant effect of apo A-IV phenotype on LDL cholesterol lowering in response to pravastatin was noted. A meta-analysis utilizing published data from 4 previously published studies as well as our own data with a total sample size of 625 subjects was carried out. This analysis indicates that the presence of the APOE*2 allele was associated with a significantly greater (P < 0.05) LDL-cholesterol lowering response at 37% than those subjects homozygous for the APOE*3 allele at 35%, while those with the APOE*4 allele had a significantly lower response (P < 0.05), at 33%. These data are consistent with the concept that apo E phenotype modulates the LDL cholesterol lowering response observed with the use of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7605391
We investigated the effects of simvastatin on plasma levels of lipoprotein subfractions, cholesterol esterification rates and activities of cholesteryl ester transfer protein in 28 patients with type II hyperlipoproteinemia (i.e., nonfamilial hyperlipoproteinemia type IIa and type IIb, and heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH)). Plasma levels of VLDL-cholesterol (C) and VLDL-triglyceride (TG) were significantly reduced overall by 12.9 +/- 58.0% (mean +/- S.D.; P < 0.05) and 4.2 +/- 54.2% (P < 0.05) respectively, but not in FH. Plasma levels of IDL-C and IDLT-G were decreased overall by 23.2 +/- 47.5% (P < 0.001) and 12.3 +/- 49.7% (P < 0.05), respectively, again mainly due to decreases seen in nonfamilial type II hyperlipoproteinemia. Plasma levels of LDL1 (1.019 < d < 1.045)-C and LDL1-TG were significantly reduced by 33.1 +/- 12.9% (P < 0.001) and 23.3 +/- 24.7% (P < 0.001), respectively. Plasma levels of LDL2 (1.045 < d < 1.063)-C were significantly reduced by 22.9 +/- 18.1% (P < 0.001) overall but not in FH. Gradient PAGE showed no consistent changes in the distribution of LDL particles. Thus, plasma levels of all apo B-containing lipoprotein subfractions were reduced by simvastatin, but its effects varied among the three subgroups. Cholesterol esterification rates were suppressed by 9.3 +/- 19.7% (P < 0.01) and activities of cholesteryl ester transfer protein were reduced by 30.6 +/- 21.5% (P < 0.001). Changes in CETP activity and in plasma levels of cholesterol in lipoprotein subfractions were not correlated. Thus, the changes in distribution of lipoprotein subfractions were not due mainly to CETP suppression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7606066
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of simvastatin administered to a group of heart transplant patients receiving triple-drug immunosuppressive therapy. We also assessed the potential pharmacokinetic interaction between simvastatin and cyclosporine by comparing mean plasma concentrations of simvastatin beta-hydroxy acid, the major metabolite of the drug, in a group of heart transplant patients treated with cyclosporine and in a control group of patients who had not received heart transplants. Both groups received long-term (> 6 wk) simvastatin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7606882
Elevated plasma intermediate density lipoprotein (IDL) is one of the features of uremic dyslipidemia which is potentially atherogenic. We examined the effects of pravastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, on IDL levels as well as other lipoprotein parameters in 19 uremic patients treated with hemodialysis (HD, n = 11) or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD, n = 8). The patients were administered 5 mg/day pravastatin for the initial 4 weeks and 10 mg/day for the subsequent 12 weeks. In the analysis of the total subjects, IDL-cholesterol was reduced by 31% as well as low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol. Cholesterol in very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) also decreased whereas that in high density lipoprotein (HDL) did not. Significant decrease of serum triglycerides was due mainly to reduced IDL- and LDL-triglycerides. Apolipoprotein (apo) A-I did not change, whereas apo A-II, B, C-II, C-III, E, and B/A-I ratio were significantly lowered. Pravastatin did not affect measured activity of lecithin: cholesterol acyltransferase, post-heparin plasma lipoprotein lipase or hepatic triglyceride lipase. HD and CAPD patients responded almost equally to the treatment. IDL elevation was present independent of serum total cholesterol, and it was lowered by pravastatin even in non-hypercholesterolemic subjects. There was no critical adverse effect besides transient and asymptomatic increase of serum creatine kinase level. We conclude that pravastatin can be a safe and effective approach to the management of dyslipidemia in uremic patients who have an elevated level of IDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7608323
Twenty-one healthy, male volunteers completed this double-blind, randomized, two-period, crossover study to determine the possible pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interaction of the concomitant administration of rivastatin and warfarin sodium in healthy volunteers. The study comprised 2 treatment periods of 8 days each, with a medication-free period of 14 days between the 2 treatment periods. According to the randomization, the volunteers received either 300 micrograms of rivastatin or matching placebo once daily during the treatment periods. On day 4 of each treatment period, the volunteers also received a single oral dose of 25 mg of warfarin sodium together with rivastatin or matching placebo. The effect of rivastatin on both the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (prothrombin time and clotting factor VII activity) of warfarin sodium, and the effect of warfarin sodium on the pharmacokinetics of rivastatin were investigated. Blood sample assays included the analysis of both R- and S-warfarin, because it is known that the enantiomers differ in anticoagulant potency. The study results indicate that the concomitant administration of rivastatin and warfarin does not affect the pharmacokinetics of R- and S-warfarin, or the pharmacodynamics of warfarin. Furthermore, the administration of warfarin sodium does not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7611141
Thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is superior to planar imaging for localizing native coronary stenoses, but has not yet been studied for assessing graft patency late after coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). Accordingly, we studied 50 patients (40 males), aged 58 +/- 9 years (mean +/- SD), who presented for evaluation of angina (30 patients), atypical chest pain (20 patients), and other symptoms (9 patients), late after CABG (51 +/- 47 months). Patients with prior myocardial infarction were excluded. The mean ejection fraction was 58 +/- 17%. All patients underwent coronary angiography within 3 weeks of symptom-limited exercise thallium-201 SPECT. There were 119 grafts, of which 48 had > 50% stenosis by angiography. Thallium-201 SPECT detected 40 of these 48 (83%) stenosed grafts. The sensitivity of thallium-201 SPECT for detecting any graft stenosis was higher than that of the exercise electrocardiogram in patients with typical recurrent angina (84% vs 24%, p < 0.0001), as well as in those with atypical symptoms (70% vs 50%, p = 0.0039). The sensitivity of thallium-201 SPECT for correctly localizing the graft stenosis site was 82% for the left anterior descending, 92% for the right coronary, and 75% for the circumflex coronary artery. In conclusion, exercise thallium-201 SPECT is an excellent method to detect and localize graft stenosis late after CABG; it is far superior to the exercise electrocardiogram alone, both in patients with and without typical recurrent angina.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7611143
Restenosis has frequently been observed at the articulation of the Palmaz-Schatz stent. However, the precise mechanism for this remains poorly understood. We measured the luminal diameter in 5 segments within the stent in 67 lesions of 63 patients with successful stenting. Luminal diameter at all 5 sites was significantly reduced 6 months after stent implantation (3.2 +/- 0.5 vs 2.4 +/- 0.7 mm, p < 0.05). Angiographic restenosis rate was 18%. Restenosis involving the articulation was found in 75% of the lesions, and that involving the articulation or edges in 83%. The diameter at the articulation was significantly smaller both immediately (3.0 +/- 0.5 mm vs 3.3 +/- 0.5 mm, p < 0.05) and 6 months after (2.1 +/- 0.8 mm vs 2.5 +/- 0.7 mm, p < 0.05) stenting than the diameter of other stent segments. The loss index was significantly greater at the proximal and distal edges than at the bodies of the stent (0.98 vs 0.60, p < 0.05). The edges of the Palmaz-Schatz stent tend to dilate more than the body of the stent during normal inflation. Although this anchoring system protects against dislodgment or migration of the stent, it may cause more injury. The articulation has 2 anchoring edges within only a 1 mm diameter. Thus, restenosis at the articulation may be ascribed to residual stenosis, increased intimal proliferation due to more severe injury, and delayed late vessel remodeling from lack of mechanical support. These characteristics may be attributed to stent design, and design improvement of the articulation may lead to more favorable results after stent implantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7611158
Our study indicates that the combination of nicotinic acid (1.2 g/day) and lovastatin (20 mg/day) is more effective than either drug alone in reducing total and LDL cholesterol. Although HDL cholesterol was not significantly improved by these doses of agents over the duration of this study, LDL/HDL and HDL/total cholesterol ratios were improved due to the beneficial actions on total and LDL cholesterol. No serious side effects or changes in serum chemistries were observed, and the combination was well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7611159
The main issue is whether briefly stopping treatment of the hypercholesterolemic patient will accelerate the atherosclerotic process. This is possible, but such a strategy is preferable only in a subgroup of patients who cannot bear the economic burden of increasing the dosage of statins. In addition, stopping and restarting the drug at different stages lessens the likelihood of more adverse effects occurring when the dosage is increased.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7611249
Pharmocologic treatment of the hyperlipidemia associated with the nephrotic syndrome with lovastatin has been previously shown to be safe and effective. However, there is no information on the effect of lovastatin treatment on plasma lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] levels in patients with the nephrotic syndrome. We administered lovastatin (40 to 80 mg/day) to 20 adult patients with unremitting nephrotic syndrome for 8 weeks to assess its effect on plasma Lp(a) and other plasma lipid concentrations. Apoprotein(a) (apo(a)) phenotype was determined in all patients. Patients were grouped according to their plasma Lp(a) levels. Those with elevated plasma Lp(a) (> or = 30 mg/dL) were placed in group I and those with normal Lp(a) levels (< 30 mg/dL) were placed in group II. Mean total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol were similarly and significantly reduced in groups I and II (-35.9% and -43.3%, P < 0.0005, P < 0.0005 group I, and -31.0% and -42.0%, P < 0.02, P < 0.03 group II, respectively). The median reduction in plasma Lp(a) was -32% (P < 0.003) in nephrotic patients in group I, whereas the median decline in plasma Lp(a) levels in nephrotic patients in group II was only -8.0% (P = 0.052). The overall frequency of the high molecular weight (M(r)) apo(a) phenotype S4 was 70% in nephrotic patients. There was no correlation between plasma Lp(a) and apo(a) phenotype. Treatment with lovastatin results in a favorable response in terms of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering in patients with the nephrotic syndrome; however, plasma Lp(a) levels are uniformly and significantly reduced only in nephrotic patients with elevated baseline plasma Lp(a) concentrations. There was no correlation between plasma Lp(a) concentration and other lipid and biochemical parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7614520
The objective of this study was to compare the lipid-altering efficacy and safety of simvastatin with that of gemfibrozil in hypercholesterolemic patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). The study was a 24-week, double-blind, randomized, multicenter trial conducted at clinics and hospitals in the United States, Austria, Germany, Brazil, and New Zealand. The study population included 168 men and women aged 34 to 78 years with NIDDM and primary hypercholesterolemia (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-C] level at screening was > or = 4.9 mmol/L with no other risk factor or > or = 4.1 mmol/L with one or more other risk factors). All patients had been under moderate-to-good diabetic control (hemoglobin A1c [HbA1c] < or = 10.0%) for at least 6 months with diet alone, oral hypoglycemic agents, or insulin therapy. Patients meeting eligibility criteria were randomized to receive either simvastatin 10 mg (titrated up to 40 mg to achieve an LDL-C level < 3.4 mmol/L) once in the evening or gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily. There were 81 patients in the simvastatin group and 87 patients in the gemfibrozil group. After 17 weeks of treatment, simvastatin significantly reduced levels of total cholesterol, LDL-C, and very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C) by approximately 25%, 33%, and 20%, respectively (P < or = 0.001), and triglycerides by about 9% (P < or = 0.05). The drug increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels by about 6% (P < 0.01). Gemfibrozil significantly reduced total cholesterol, VLDL-C, and triglyceride levels by approximately 8%, 38%, and 27%, respectively (P < 0.001); it significantly increased HDL-C values by about 12% (P < 0.001). Gemfibrozil lowered LDL-C levels by 4% but not significantly. The decreases in total cholesterol and LDL-C were significantly greater (P < 0.001) in the simvastatin group, and decreases in VLDL-C and triglycerides were significantly greater in the gemfibrozil group (P < 0.01). The changes in HDL-C were not significantly different between groups. LDL-C values of < 3.4 mmol/L were achieved in 60% of the simvastatin patients and 14% of the gemfibrozil patients. There were no significant between-group differences in fasting serum glucose or HbA1c at any time point. Glycemic profiles (performed at baseline and after 17 weeks of treatment) and glucose area under the curve (at baseline and after 17 weeks of treatment) were not significantly different between treatment groups. Both drugs were generally well tolerated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7618632
We undertook a pilot study examining the efficacy of lovastatin 20 mg every other day in patients with hypercholesterolemia, and found lovastatin to be effective in lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels in patients with serum LDL > 160 mg/dl.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7619678
The effects of equi-efficacious doses of the cholesterol-lowering drugs simvastatin (20 mg day-1) and pravastatin (40 mg day-1) on tests of cognitive function were investigated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-period (4 weeks per period), incomplete block, crossover study of 36 patients (24 per treatment) with hypercholesterolaemia. After 4 weeks neither of the active treatments differed significantly from placebo on any cognitive measure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7619944
We examined the relation between overall 1-year exposure to diet and drugs prescribed for hyperlipidemia and the occurrence of medically certified absence from work with depression during the year of exposure (N = 289). The 17,244 persons studied are middle-aged employees of a national company who volunteered as cohort participants. Depression was more prevalent among those exposed to an antihyperlipidemic diet (N = 1,614) than among those unexposed. After stratification by sex and professional status, we found a prevalence ratio (PR) of 1.83 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.30-2.58]. Exposure to simvastatin (N = 376) produced comparable results, with a prevalence ratio of 2.18 (95% CI = 1.18-4.03). For subjects who were not cases in the year of exposure assessment, the hypolipidemic treatments are not associated with depression-induced absenteeism the following year. Our results point to a possible role of prescribed diet and simvastatin in depression-related absenteeism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7621303
Given that treatment with a single drug is frequently unsuccessful in patients with combined hyperlipidaemia, there is a rationale for the study of regimens using drugs that have complementary therapeutic profiles. We therefore set out to compare the efficacy of a combined pravastatin and nicotinic acid regimen with higher dose monotherapy using either drug in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes and in non-diabetic patients with combined hyperlipidaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7628131
The effect of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on Lp(a) concentrations is controversial, with some studies showing an increase and others showing no effect on Lp(a) concentrations. Many of these studies have been limited by small sample size and the lack of a prospective design. We evaluated the effect of four treatments: (1) placebo, (2) simvastatin 10 mg PO QPM, (3) simvastatin 20 mg PO QAM, and (4) simvastatin 20 mg PO QPM on Lp(a) concentrations in a prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial of 24 weeks in 343 subjects in 28 clinical sites in the United States. Simvastatin was not associated with a change in Lp(a) concentrations relative to placebo. These results were not affected by controlling for race, initial Lp(a) level, or urinary albumin excretion. Simvastatin significantly reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels (10 mg PO QPM: -27.6%; 20 mg PO QAM: -28.1%; and 20 mg PO QPM: -34.3%, all p < 0.001). It was concluded that in a large, randomized, controlled trial, simvastatin does not affect Lp(a) levels but markedly lowers LDL cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7631459
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7636533
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of acitretin on the development of keratotic skin lesions, and on squamous cell carcinomas and basal cell carcinomas in a group of renal transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7637480
To study whether vascular dysfunction in hypercholesterolaemia is reversible, we investigated patients without overt arterial disease who were taking maintenance treatment for hypercholesterolaemia. Medication was stopped for 2 weeks, reinstituted for 12 weeks, and again stopped for 6 weeks. During both maintenance treatment and the 12 weeks of step-up medication the lipid profile was improved but did not return to normal. Dose-response curves for serotonin-induced vasodilatation, an index of nitric oxide-dependent vasodilatation, showed a comparable and significant rightward shift after a medication-free period of 2 and 6 weeks compared with control subjects, indicating endothelial dysfunction, which was already maximum after 2 weeks. After 12 weeks of lipid-lowering medication, the difference in endothelial function between controls and patients had disappeared. Co-infusion of L-arginine, the substrate for nitric oxide synthase, returned the impaired serotonin response during hypercholesterolaemia to normal, but had no effect on this response in controls or in patients while on lipid-lowering medication. Neither endothelium-independent vasorelaxation, assessed by sodium nitroprusside infusion, nor vasoconstriction induced by the nitric oxide blocker L-NMMA, were different between controls and patients, whether the latter were on or off lipid-lowering medication. Our results show an L-arginine-sensitive, impaired nitric-oxide-mediated vascular relaxation of forearm resistance vessels in hypercholesterolaemia which is reproducible, and reversible after short-term lipid-lowering therapy. Demonstration of such changes in this readily accessible vascular bed will allow larger trials assessing vascular function during lipid-lowering therapy to be done.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7637722
Hypercholesterolemia is common after cardiac transplantation and may contribute to the development of coronary vasculopathy. Pravastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, has been shown to be effective and safe in lowering cholesterol levels after cardiac transplantation. Cell-culture studies using inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase have suggested an immunosuppressive effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7638696
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7643027
The study was conducted on 30 NIDDM patients with type II hyperlipoproteinemia. They consisted of 13 males and 17 females with the mean (+/- S.D.) age of 60.6 +/- 7.6 year. They were treated with a daily dose of 10 mg pravastatin given orally twice a day for 16 weeks. Their mean (+/- S.D.) serum TC, LDL-C, TG and HDL-C levels at week 0 were 259.7 +/- 22.6, 177.4 +/- 20.3, 173.9 +/- 62.3 and 44.0 +/- 9.9 mg/dl respectively. After receiving pravastatin the maximal reduction of TC, LDL-C and TG was 22.9, 31.2 and 17.1 per cent with statistical significant difference from the baseline. The maximal increment of HDL-C was 11.9 per cent, also showing statistical significant difference from the baseline. Plasma glucose, serum fructosamine and glycated hemoglobin were not affected by pravastatin. There were no significant changes in the patients' body weight and other biochemical parameters except for one case who had transient slight increase in transaminase during pravastatin treatment. These results indicate that pravastatin is an effective and safe drug in diabetic patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7646575
The efficacy of pravastatin (CAS 81131-70-6) on serum lipid levels in 91 type 2 diabetic patients with mean glycosylated hemoglobin of 8.5% was investigated up to 12 weeks. Oral administration of 10 to 20 mg/d of pravastatin significantly decreased total cholesterol by 18.4 +/- 1.5% after 4 weeks. When analyzed separately in type IIa and IIb hyperlipidemia, the reduction of total cholesterol by pravastatin was more prominent in the former. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were also significantly decreased 22.2 +/- 2.7% after 4 weeks. The effect of pravastatin in reducing triglyceride was more prominent in patients with higher triglyceride compared to those with lower triglyceride before the administration of the drug. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol showed a slight but significant increase by 4.2 +/- 1.9% after 4 weeks. Among the apolipoproteins examined, apolipoprotein B was significantly decreased after 4 weeks. Atherogenic index and apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratio were also significantly decreased after 4 weeks. The efficacy of pravastatin was also observed after 12 weeks to the same extent as after 4 weeks. No major side effects or abnormalities of laboratory parameters have been observed. These data lead to the conclusion that pravastatin is useful for the treatment of hyperlipidemia in type 2 diabetic patients with poor glycemic control without major adverse effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7648234
The safety and efficacy of combined bezafibrate-simvastatin therapy was evaluated in 49 patients with diet-resistant mixed hyperlipidaemia (type IIb). After a two-month placebo phase, patients were randomized to receive either Bezafibrate Slow Release (SR) 400 mg mane or simvastatin 20 mg nocte followed by three months combination therapy. Total cholesterol, triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol were measured at monthly intervals. Apolipoproteins (apo) A1 and B, lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] and fibrinogen were measured before and after each treatment. Simvastatin was more effective than Bezafibrate SR in reducing total cholesterol (2.0 vs. 1.1 mmol/l, p = 0.003) and lowering LDL cholesterol (1.7 vs. 0.4 mmol/l, p = 0.0001) whereas Bezafibrate SR was more effective in reducing triglycerides (by 41% vs. 17%, p = 0.001) and fibrinogen (by 23% vs. 3%, p = 0.004). Compared with simvastatin monotherapy, combined drug therapy induced further reductions in triglycerides (by 26%, p = 0.0003) and apoB (by 11 mg/dl, p = 0.03) and an increase in apoA1 (by 21 mg/dl, p = 0.0008). Symptomatic and biochemical adverse events did not occur more frequently on combined drug therapy than on monotherapy. The combination of bezafibrate and simvastatin was more effective in controlling mixed hyperlipidaemia than either drug alone and did not provoke more adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7652773
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7652779
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7652781
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7652960
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7652961
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7653179
The intercellular lipids of stratum corneum are predominantly formed by cholesterol, ceramides and free fatty acids. Cholesterol synthesis is inhibited by statins, cholesterol-lowering drugs (lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin). The present study was undertaken to examine the effect of these drugs on skin barrier function. Knowledge about the effect on epidermis of systemic inhibition of cholesterol synthesis may improve our understanding of the skin barrier function. Seventeen statin-treated subjects were compared to controls. All were patch-tested with sodium lauryl sulphate (SLS), and the skin was evaluated after 24 h and after 7 days by measurement of transepidermal water loss (TEWL), erythema and visual scoring. After 24 h as well as after one week erythema was significantly less pronounced in the statin-treated group than in controls (p < 0.001). No significant differences in TEWL were found between the groups at any time. The results imply a decreased bioavailability of SLS in the statin-treated group, while no evidence for an altered permeability barrier to water was found.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7653447
LIPID is a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial comparing the effects of pravastatin, 40 mg/day, with placebo, given for > or = 5 years, in patients aged 31 to 75 years with a total cholesterol level at baseline of 4.0 to 7.0 mmol/L (155 to 270 mg/dl), and with a history of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) or hospitalization for unstable angina pectoris (UAP). Each group receives dietary advice according to National Heart Foundation guidelines. Individual care of each patient is otherwise left to the discretion of the patient's usual doctor. The study has a primary outcome of coronary mortality, and is designed to detect an 18% reduction with 80% power. From April 1990 to September 1992, 11,106 patients were registered, and following the run-in phase, 9,014 were randomized: 5,754 (64%) after a qualifying event of AMI and 3,260 (36%) after hospitalization for UAP. The randomized population includes relatively large numbers in subgroups not assessed reliably in earlier trials: 1,511 women, 3,516 patients aged > or = 65 years, 777 diabetics, and 3,829 patients with serum cholesterol < or = 5.5 mmol/L (213 mg/dl) at baseline. With a projected 700 fatal coronary events, the trial should be able to detect important reductions in coronary mortality and contribute substantially to prospective meta-analyses to detect effects on total mortality. The spectrum of patients being assessed will improve the reliability of evidence for the benefits and risks of cholesterol-lowering therapies in patients with lower cholesterol levels and in other important subgroups.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7653448
This study was designed to evaluate the therapeutic effectiveness of 3 different pharmacologic lipid-lowering regimens in the treatment of patients with clustered lipid risk factors. Sixty-five patients with low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels and hypertriglyceridemia were randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms: pravastatin/niacin, pravastatin/magnesium, or pravastatin/placebo. After 18 weeks, patients in the pravastatin/niacin group had a -41% change in the total cholesterol/HDL ratio compared with -13% in the pravastatin/magnesium arm and -16% in the pravastatin/placebo group. The HDL2 and HDL3 subfractions, as well as the apolipoprotein A-I levels, were increased significantly only in the pravastatin/niacin arm. The levels of small dense low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (LDL3) were decreased to a greater extent in the pravastatin/niacin arm (-43%) than in either the pravastatin/magnesium (-13%) or the pravastatin/placebo (-20%) arm. Only the pravastatin/niacin regimen significantly diminished postprandial lipemia (-32% change in the remnant particle triglyceride concentration and decreased very-low-density lipoprotein remnant levels). Thus, in this group of patients with clustered risk factors, the combination of pravastatin and niacin resulted in significant improvements in HDL and triglyceride levels, total cholesterol to HDL ratio, small dense LDL levels, and postprandial lipemia. Pravastatin alone or in combination with magnesium resulted in less significant changes that were largely limited to LDL cholesterol reduction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7653449
The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of pravastatin in a primary prevention context. The primary end point of the trial is definite coronary artery disease (CAD) death and/or nonfatal acute myocardial infarction. This study describes the baseline characteristics of the trial recruits and of the subjects who were screened during the recruitment process; 6,595 men, aged 45 to 64 years, with raised cholesterol levels, were randomized in equal numbers to placebo or pravastatin after initial screening of approximately 81,000 subjects in the West of Scotland. With the exception of cholesterol levels and history of CAD, the recruits had a similar risk factor profile and demographic distribution to the group of screenees from which they were selected. Compared with previous primary prevention studies of cholesterol-lowering drugs, the WOSCOPS recruits are, on average, 7 to 9 years older than subjects in other trials and have average total cholesterol levels 0.5 mmol/L (19.4 mg/dl) lower than those in the Helsinki Heart Study and the Lipid Research Clinics-Coronary Primary Prevention Trial. The study has achieved its initial goal of accumulating > 30,000 patient-years of randomized follow-up. Recruits had their final trial visits in the first half of 1995 and the main results will be available in the fourth quarter of 1995.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7656097
The effects on costs and lipid levels of replacing lovastatin therapy with pravastatin were studied. Beginning in April 1992, outpatients receiving lovastatin were switched to pravastatin. Physicians were asked but not required to initiate the pravastatin sodium treatment at half the daily lovastatin dose in milligrams. In October 1993, the dosages of lovastatin and pravastatin and the corresponding lipid-profile results were recorded for each patient for whom lovastatin had been replaced by pravastatin. The drug acquisition cost per year of therapy was calculated for each patient's most recent dosage of lovastatin and pravastatin as of April 1993. The costs used in the analysis were the most recent available (March 1995). Lovastatin therapy was changed to pravastatin in a total of 168 patients. Of the 168 patients, 145 (86%) were prescribed an initial daily pravastatin sodium dose that was at least 50% lower in milligrams than that of lovastatin. All of the 168 patients who received pravastatin had two usable total-cholesterol measurements during lovastatin therapy, and 148 (88%) had at least one such measurement during pravastatin therapy. Among patients with usable serum-lipid data, there was no significant difference between any of the mean serum lipid concentration (total cholesterol, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, or high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol) before and after the conversion. The annual cost of lovastatin for the 148 patients would be $71,693 for the most recent dosages; the corresponding cost for pravastatin would be $56,875 (21% lower). The replacement of lovastatin with pravastatin sodium was associated with a 21% cost reduction but no significant change in mean serum lipid concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7657845
More efficient drug and biologics development is necessary for future success of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. One way to achieve this objective is to use rationally selected surrogate markers to improve the early decision-making process. Using typical clinical chemistry methods to measure biochemical markers may not ensure adequate precision and reproducibility. In contrast, using analytical methods that meet good laboratory practices along with rational selection and validation of biochemical markers can give those who use them a competitive advantage over those who do not by providing meaningful data for earlier decision making.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7658290
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7661873
The study evaluates cholesterol metabolism off and on treatment with pravastatin (P), gemfibrozil (G) and their combination (PG) in 38 middle-age hyperlipidemic primary care patients with serum cholesterol > 6 mmol/l and serum triglycerides < 4 mmol/l after a low-fat low-cholesterol diet. The subjects were randomized to P (40 mg/g), G (1200 mg/day), PG (40 + 1200 mg/day) or placebo for 12 weeks. We analyzed serum lipids, apolipoproteins A-I, B and E, serum cholesterol precursors (markers of cholesterol synthesis), serum plant sterols and cholestanol (markers of cholesterol absorption) and cholesterol metabolism by the sterol balance technique and cholesterol absorption efficiency. P alone or in combination with G lowered apoprotein E concentration, and serum cholesterol levels by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis measured by the precursor/cholesterol proportions with inconsistent change in fecal output of cholesterol. G alone decreased bile acid synthesis and increased biliary cholesterol secretion which were associated with reduced cholesterol absorption efficiency and the serum plant sterol and cholestanol proportions, and increased synthesis of cholesterol as measured both by the sterol balance technique and the precursor sterol proportions. A combination of PG also lowered LDL cholesterol similarly but triglyceride-rich lipoproteins significantly more than P alone, and otherwise inhibited the changes caused by G in cholesterol metabolism except that the precursor sterol proportions still indicated reduced cholesterol synthesis. Overall, the changes of the cholesterol precursor proportions were negatively related to that of cholesterol absorption efficiency and positively to that of cholesterol synthesis. The respective plant sterol and cholestanol values correlated oppositely to cholesterol absorption efficiency and synthesis. Serum precursor sterols reflected changes in cholesterol synthesis more sensitively than the sterol balance technique, even though only the latter method can quantitate cholesterol synthesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7661884
Small low density lipoproteins (LDL) are more susceptible to in vitro oxidation than larger LDL. To study whether this leads to more oxidation of small LDL in vivo, we determined the level of autoantibodies against malondialdehyde-modified LDL (MDA-LDL) in subjects with small or large LDL (LDL subclass pattern B or A) by ELISA. The study group consisted of 92 subjects with coronary heart disease without severe hypercholesterolemia (mean total plasma cholesterol 5.9 +/- 0.8 mM), 46 with an LDL subclass pattern A and 46 with an LDL subclass pattern B. In the subjects with LDL subclass pattern B the titre of autoantibodies of the IgM class against MDA-LDL was 29% higher than in the subjects with LDL subclass pattern A (P < 0.0001). The concentration of the anti-MDA-LDL autoantibodies of the IgM class was 58% higher in the patients with the pattern B than in the patients with the pattern A (P < 0.0001). There was no statistically significant difference in the titre or concentration of autoantibodies of the IgG class between subjects with LDL subclass patterns A and B. Besides plasma triglyceride and HDL cholesterol, the titre and concentration of the IgM autoantibodies were found to be independent predictors of the LDL subclass pattern. These results show that small LDL are associated with higher autoantibody levels than large LDL. Based on the assumption that the level of autoantibodies against MDA-LDL represents the rate of LDL oxidation in vivo, we conclude that in vivo small LDL is more readily oxidised than larger LDL.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7662446
To evaluate the long-term safety profile of treatment with a statin-fibrate combination in a cohort of patients with documented coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7663036
In summary, within a controlled study situation, psyllium seems to be effective in lowering total and LDL cholesterol by 4-8% and 6-13%, respectively. Compared with conventional antilipidemic agents such as lovastatin, which lowers total cholesterol 30%, LDL cholesterol 40%, and triglycerides 20%, the effect of psyllium on lipids is minimal, and its use as a form of drug therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe hypercholesterolemia is not recommended. As an adjunct to AHA step 1 diet therapy, however, psyllium can be useful. The NCEP recently has stressed diet therapy as a first-line primary intervention in patients not a high risk from multiple risk factors or very high LDL cholesterol concentrations. Men ( < or = 45 y) and premenopausal women with no other risk factors and moderately high LDL cholesterol concentrations (4.1-5.7 mmol/l) are at relatively low risk for coronary events in the near future, and would therefore be suitable for diet therapy combined with adjunctive psyllium therapy. Psyllium is well tolerated with minor transient adverse effects (abdominal distention, excessive gas, flatulence) and has a good compliance record ( > or = 90%). It would be a useful adjunct to dietary intervention in low-risk patients with mild-to-moderate hypercholesterolemia. Further research is needed to evaluate psyllium's effect in women and its efficacy in long-term use.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7664501
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7664504
Numerous studies involving patients with hypercholesterolemia have demonstrated that reduction of lipid levels markedly reduces morbidity and mortality from cardiovascular disease. Diet alone may enable patients without established disease to attain target lipid levels, but pharmacotherapy generally is necessary for those with coronary artery disease. Choice of a suitable agent for monotherapy--a bile acid resin, niacin, or an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor--may be determined by patient phenotype. For resistant cases, therapy combining an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor with another agent generally is effective and well tolerated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7665720
The effect of lovastatin given before percutaneous coronary angioplasty (PTCA) on early restenosis was investigated in men with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia. Thirty-four hypercholesterolemic patients (serum LDL cholesterol 130-200 mg/dL) undergoing their first PTCA completed a 6-month prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Eighteen received lovastatin 20 mg/day (Lo group) and 16 placebo (P1 group), beginning 10 to 21 days before PTCA. All underwent a thallium-201 quantitative exercise test 5 to 7 days after PTCA. Endpoints for restenosis were either 50% narrowing of the dilated artery on coronary angiography, performed in symptomatic patients or, in asymptomatic patients, the appearance of newly developed reversible filling defects in the vascular territory of the dilated artery on a second thallium scan done 6 months after PTCA. The hypocholesterolemic change observed in the Lo group was not accompanied by a reduction in early restenosis risk. The authors conclude that effective hypocholesterolemic therapy before PTCA does not affect early restenosis rate in men with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7667166
To characterize the lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities in patients with diabetes mellitus and evaluate the risks and benefits of marketed pharmacologic therapies, a MEDLINE search of the National Library of Medicine data base was performed of studies published from January 1966 to March 1994. Clinical trials assessing effects on lipids and lipoproteins, and adverse effects of marketed lipid-lowering agents were extracted. Reviews and other relevant articles were included if they provided information regarding lipid and lipoprotein metabolism or guidelines on the treatment of dyslipidemias in patients with diabetes mellitus. An extensive review of clofibrate was not included. The most common dyslipidemia in patients with poorly controlled insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is combined elevated triglyceride and cholesterol levels, with reduced high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (mixed hyperlipidemia). Hypertriglyceridemia combined with a reduced HDL cholesterol is the most common dyslipidemia in patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, but essentially any pattern of dyslipidemia may be present. Small and dense low-density lipoprotein (LDL), glycosylation of lipoproteins, and increased oxidized lipoproteins may be present in patients with diabetes mellitus; all contribute to accelerated atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Insulin therapy generally corrects quantitative lipid abnormalities in patients with IDDM, so drug treatment is seldom indicated. Diet, exercise, and insulin or oral sulfonylureas will improve hypertriglyceridemia and low HDL concentrations, but do not always return them to normal. Drug therapy is indicated when nonpharmacologic measures are inadequate. It is administered based on the effects of each agent on lipids and lipoproteins, patient age, adverse effect profile, patient tolerability, and drug-disease and drug-drug interactions. A fibric acid derivative is the drug of choice for marked hypertriglyceridemia in patients with diabetes mellitus. Niacin can worsen glycemic control, but it may be required in severe hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, or mixed hyperlipidemia. Bile-acid binding resins may accentuate hypertriglyceridemia but may be useful in selected patients with marked hypercholesterolemia and normal triglycerides. Hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reduced inhibitors are preferred in patients with elevated LDL cholesterol and mild hypertriglyceridemia. Patients with marked lipid abnormalities or mixed hyperlipidemias may require carefully dosed combinations of lipid-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7669080
This report concerns a heart transplant patient with hypercholesterolemia who showed rapid development of a severe transplant coronary artery disease. The patient received 10 mg pravastatine per day. Quantitative coronary angiography analyses of 4 serial angiograms clearly demonstrated that in the first 2.5 years following surgery, there was a rapid simultaneous progression in both the transplant coronary disease, involving the entire coronary system, and the development of segmental stenotic lesions. During one year of weekly heparin-mediated extracorporeal LDL-cholesterol precipitation (HELP) therapy in addition to diet and pravastatine therapy, the serum low density lipoprotein (LDL), lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)), and fibrinogen levels could be reduced from 185 +/- 45 mg/dl, 138 mg/dl and 248 mg/dl, respectively, to interval values of 136 +/- 17 mg/dl, 48 +/- 15 mg/dl, and 185 +/- 44 mg/dl, respectively [interval value = (the concentration after HELP + the concentration before the next HELP treatment):2]. This therapy halted further progression of coronary diameter throughout the whole coronary system and brought about marked regression of segmental obstructive lesions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7669084
Postprandial fat clearance and absorption, fecal elimination and synthesis of cholesterol, bile acid synthesis, and cholesterol precursors and plant sterols in serum were studied in five patients with type III dyslipoproteinemia off and on lovastatin. The basal values were related to those in nontreated normolipidemic control subjects with apolipoprotein E3/3 phenotype (apo E3 controls, n = 16). On regular home diets, cholesterol precursor concentrations and cholesterol precursor/cholesterol ratios were high in the type III group. However, cholesterol absorption efficiency, bile acid and cholesterol synthesis measured with sterol balance technique and the precursor sterol/plant sterol ratios in serum were similar to the control values, suggesting that cholesterol absorption and metabolism was normal in these subjects. Lovastatin normalized the increased lipoprotein concentrations and reduced biliary cholesterol secretion, absolute absorption of cholesterol, precursor sterol/cholesterol and precursor sterol/plant sterol ratios in serum, fecal neutral and total sterol outputs and cholesterol synthesis. Lovastatin had no effect on cholesterol absorption efficiency or bile acid synthesis. Despite normalization of the triglyceride-rich lipoprotein levels by lovastatin, the postprandial vitamin A and squalene peak concentrations and the areas under the curves remained above the control ranges. The findings show that in type III hyperlipidemia, the precursor sterol/cholesterol ratios do not predict cholesterol synthesis. The latter, bile acid synthesis, precursor sterol/plant sterol ratios in serum, and cholesterol absorption are normal under basal conditions. The normalization of increased lipids by lovastatin is mainly due to reduced synthesis and absolute absorption of cholesterol, while the retarded postprandial fat clearance was not normalized by the drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7670749
A growing body of evidence from serial coronary angiographic studies indicates that triglyceride-rich lipoproteins are an important factor in the progression of coronary artery disease. Compelling evidence also suggests that triglyceride-rich lipoproteins may be most important in the progression of mild-moderate lesions, the very lesions that are likely to be responsible for clinical coronary events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7670752
The role of lipoprotein (a) in the atherosclerotic process is continually being unraveled, and many of its potential proatherogenic and prothrombotic features have already been elucidated. Whereas most studies have demonstrated a strong association between lipoprotein (a) and the presence and severity of coronary heart disease, other groups have failed to observe such a relationship, which does question the importance of this particle in promoting atherosclerosis. Evidence from a study of human coronary atherosclerosis appears to demonstrate that the pathogenicity of lipoprotein (a) is modulated by concomitant LDL-cholesterol levels. Such a modulation of the pathogenicity of lipoprotein (a) may underlie the conflicting results regarding its association with coronary heart disease. This article will examine this possibility, and will also outline the potential mechanisms through which lipoprotein (a) may interact with LDL to exert its adverse effects. As a consequence of its interaction with LDL, alternative strategies for treating high levels of lipoprotein (a) will be discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7670753
Controversies exist concerning the role of hypercholesterolaemia as a risk factor for nonhaemorrhagic stroke because intracranial arteries seem to be more resistant than coronary arteries to cholesterol-induced endothelial damage. Only very high levels of serum cholesterol seem to be a significant risk factor. It is possible that coronary heart disease may occur earlier in life than cerebrovascular atherosclerosis, and it could then become the cause of stroke. In our view, the causal relationship between very low levels of serum cholesterol and haemorrhagic stroke is unlikely, and cholesterol-lowering treatment appears to be safe. New studies should consider the particular metabolic aspects of intracranial arteries and the independent role of lipoprotein (a), apolipoprotein E phenotypes and other molecular and genetic mechanisms involved in atherosclerotic cerebrovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7671358
The atherosclerotic progression-reducing effect of LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering has been established in subjects with severe atherosclerotic disease but not in persons with elevated LDL cholesterols without severe atherosclerosis. KAPS (Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study) is the first population-based trial in the primary prevention of carotid and femoral atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7674695
Several clinical trials have provided compelling evidence in support of the benefits of lipid-lowering therapy for primary and secondary prevention of atherosclerosis. The results of primary prevention trials have demonstrated that coronary morbidity can be reduced and survival improved with effective lipid-lowering regimens. There has been concern, however, regarding harmful effects (e.g., increased rate of suicide and increased risk of gastrointestinal cancer) of cholesterol-lowering therapies in primary prevention trials. These concerns are not well supported by strong evidence, and there has been lack of a dose-response relationship. It is generally believed that for 1% reduction in serum cholesterol, there is a 2% reduction in the risk of coronary events. The results of numerous secondary prevention trials have clearly demonstrated the benefit of lipid-lowering therapies in reducing the risk of future cardiac events and cardiac mortality in patients with preexistent coronary artery disease. Several studies have shown that treatment regimens effective in reducing LDL cholesterol levels lead to regression of atherosclerotic plaques as well as retard the progression of the disease process. Interestingly, some of these studies have also shown that when measured angiographically, the luminal diameter at the site of stenotic lesions might improve only by an average of 2% to 3%; however, this small degree of improvement is associated with a remarkable reduction by 35% to 25% in the risk of future coronary events. These findings further corroborate the hypothesis about the importance of a lipid-rich cap of the vulnerable plaques and suggest that the reduction in lipid levels is associated with the efflux of lipids from the plaque, thus converting it from a vulnerable to a stable state. The most recent data from the 4S trial have unequivocally demonstrated the benefits of treatment with HMG coenzyme-A reductase inhibitors in reducing the risk of future coronary events and improving the overall survival in patients with established CHD. Although there is still ongoing controversy regarding the precise course of action for primary prevention of CHD, the results of a large number of studies provide overwhelming evidence in support of aggressive lipid-lowering therapy for secondary prevention of CHD. Based on the findings of these studies, it seems prudent that clinicians become actively involved in the evaluation and management of lipid abnormalities and other risk factors in patients with CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7677557
Coronary artery disease strikes early and may prove particularly severe in persons of African-American descent. Therefore, we studied the lipid-lowering efficacy and safety of pravastatin sodium (20 mg/d), a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, in 245 African-American patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7695166
There is no consensus on lipids and restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). We evaluated whether prevastatin could prevent restenosis after PTCA. In this study, pravastatin therapy was started one month before PTCA. The follow-up angiography was done three months later. Total cholesterol reduction rates [one index of reduction rate is calculated between 1 M (month) before PTCA and at PTCA, and another done between 1 M before PTCA and at follow-up angiography] proved to be good predictors of restenosis rate after PTCA; The greater the cholesterol reduction rate, the lower the rate of restenosis. The residual stenosis after PTCA correlated with the restenosis rate. The restenosis rate in the pravastatin group was lower than that in the control group, but the difference was not statistically significant. However, in the subgroup with pre-PTCA restenosis of 99% or more, the restenosis rate in the pravastatin group was significantly lower than that of the control group. Pravastatin seems to prevent intimal hyperplasia through the reduction of cholesterol level and to reduce restenosis. Many macrophages are present in the highly stenosed or occluded coronary arteries, and the reduction of the number and the activity of macrophages may prevent the restenosis. Pravastatin also has an antithrombotic action. In such regions, the occlusion by the thrombus formation is also considered to play a key role in restenosis in addition to the intimal hyperplasia. Thus, pravastatin may be useful especially for PTCA against highly stenosed or occluded coronary arteries.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7695184
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7695185
Significant improvements in the success of angioplasty combined with a major reduction in complications have led to widespread use of the technique in the treatment of symptomatic patients with coronary disease. Restenosis, however, remains the most significant limitation of angioplasty, occurring in 20-50% of patients following a successful procedure. Over the past 10 years, more than 40 large randomized pharmacological trials have attempted to address this problem. Currently no single agent has clearly been shown to reduce restenosis. As a consequence of intensive research, improved understanding of the pathophysiology of restenosis as well as the design of clinical studies necessary to study the process has resulted. Recent experimental studies suggest that vascular remodeling may be as important as intimal hyperplasia, and future trials will need to address this aspect of the restenosis process. Current approaches to preventing restenosis include the use of combined drug therapy to attack several pathophysiological processes, local delivery of drug at the site of the injury to maximize drug effect, and the use of highly specific drugs including local gene therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7695217
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7696283
Numerous sources of human heterogeneity affect biotransformation of compounds. Cytochrome P450, the primary oxidative pathway of drug metabolism, is the dominant phase I oxidative system metabolizing, to some degree, most of the drugs used clinically in humans. The P450 pathway is a major site of drug-drug, drug-diet, and drug-disease/condition interactions. Functional variability in this system can have pronounced consequences in suboptimal therapeutic response or enhanced toxicity. Methods for cataloguing specific P450 enzymes are being developed and their identification will promote rational drug development, more efficient clinical trial evaluation, and improved therapeutic approaches to patients requiring special consideration. These methods will facilitate the study of the impact of pubertal development on function in this system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7697684
This study estimated the cost-effectiveness of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors available in Canada for the primary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD). A model of the cost-effectiveness of therapy used to modify low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels was developed in the primary prevention of CHD based on risk functions from the Framingham Heart Study and Canadian data on coronary risk factors and the cost of treating the leading manifestations of CHD. Relative to no treatment, discounted gains in life expectancy range from 0.174 year for fluvastatin 40 mg to 0.215 year for simvastatin 10 mg. Costs per year-of-life-saved range from $38,800 for fluvastatin 40 mg to $56,200 for pravastatin 20 mg. In the incremental analysis relative to fluvastatin 40 mg, additional gains in life expectancy range from 0.011 year for pravastatin 20 mg to 0.041 year for simvastatin 10 mg, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios range from $88,200 for simvastatin, 10 mg to $330,300 for pravastatin 20 mg. Our analysis showed that the cost-effectiveness of cholesterol-lowering therapy is sensitive to pretreatment risk of CHD, as expressed by pretreatment cholesterol levels and the presence of additional risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, and smoking. The results of the analysis suggest that it is more cost-effective to initiate treatment with fluvastatin than with pravastatin, simvastatin, or lovastatin. Sensitivity analysis showed the results to be stable even if the lipid-lowering effect of fluvastatin is varied by 23% from the original assumption of 25% LDL reduction (ie, from 19.3% to 30.8%). Limitations of the study are recognized and discussed. A head-to-head comparison of these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors could provide further evidence that therapy initiated with fluvastatin may be the most cost-effective way to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia who are eligible for treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7697857
There has been a continuing debate about the overall benefit of cholesterol lowering. We performed a novel meta-analysis of all randomized trials of more than 2 years' duration (n = 35 trials) to describe how coronary-heart-disease (CHD), non-CHD, and total mortality are related to cholesterol lowering and to type of intervention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7698042
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7698516
Patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) have a greater risk of developing coronary heart disease than would be expected from a similar degree of hyperlipidemia in nondiabetic populations. Accelerated transfer of cholesteryl esters (CET) from high-density lipoprotein (HDL) to low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), a process that is associated with atherosclerosis, may be a possible explanation for this. CET, plasma lipoprotein concentration, and mass in the fasting and postprandial state have been examined in 31 hyperlipidemic patients with NIDDM before and after 8 weeks of treatment with the hydroxymethylglutaryl (HMG)-coenzyme A (CoA) reductase inhibitor pravastatin in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study. Body mass index, glycemic control, and blood pressure remained unaltered during the study period. Compared with placebo, pravastatin decreased fasting serum cholesterol (P < 0.001) and LDL cholesterol (P < 0.002) levels. The high basal CET (34.4 +/- 13.1 nmol.ml-1.h-1) was decreased significantly by pravastatin treatment (27.5 +/- 13.7 nmol.ml-1.h-1, P = 0.013). There was a fall in the total cholesterol, free cholesterol, and phospholipid content of the Sf 0-12, 20-60, and 60-400 lipoproteins (all P = 0.001). Lecithin: cholesterol acyl transferase activity was not altered. The postprandial increase in VLDL cholesterol 5 h after a standardized mixed meal was attenuated after pravastatin treatment (P = 0.011). Inhibition of hepatic cholesterol synthesis with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor in hyperlipidemic patients with NIDDM decreased serum cholesterol content of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein, thereby decreasing the transfer of cholesteryl ester from HDL to LDL and VLDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7700285
Discontinuation rates for drugs used to treat chronic conditions may affect the success of therapy. However, the discontinuation rates reported in clinical trials may not reflect those in primary care settings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7701502
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7702060
Lipid abnormalities are seen frequently in renal transplant patients. Cardiovascular disease is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in these patients. We assessed the efficacy and safety of the lipid-lowering drugs, nicotinic acid (short acting) and lovastatin, the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor. Twelve renal transplant patients who had persistent hyperlipidemia despite 6 weeks of dietary treatment participated in this prospective, randomized, open-labeled crossover trial. At 16 weeks, when compared with control values, nicotinic acid (> or = 1.5 g twice a day) significantly reduced the total cholesterol (from 312 +/- 18 [+/- SEM] mg/dL to 229 +/- 19 mg/dL; P = 0.03) and the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (from 218 +/- 15 mg/dL to 142 +/- 13 mg/dL; P = 0.03) and significantly increased the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (from 44 +/- 3 mg/dL to 58 +/- 5 mg/dL; P = 0.03). The triglyceride level was reduced from 255 +/- 40 mg/dL to 150 +/- 23 mg/dL (P = 0.09). At 16 weeks, lovastatin therapy (40 mg/d) significantly reduced the total cholesterol (from 285 +/- 13 mg/dL to 233 +/- 10 mg/dL; P = 0.005) and the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (from 201 +/- 11 mg/dL to 147 +/- 7 mg/dL; P = 0.001). There were no significant changes in the triglyceride and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Although flushing developed in 67% of patients treated with nicotinic acid, this was not a reason for any of the study dropouts. During this short-term study period no adverse biochemical effects were noted with either of the drugs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7702230
To determine the effects of fluvastatin, a synthetic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, combined with moderate alcohol consumption on lipid profiles and hepatic function in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7704289
In this study, which was primarily designed to determine the lipid-lowering efficacy of pravastatin in the setting of background antihypertensive therapy with ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists, we took the opportunity to examine whether pravastatin interacts with antihypertensive therapy to produce additional falls in blood pressure. This may help clarify the mechanism of action of pravastatin's rapid beneficial effects on cardiovascular morbidity. We treated 25 hypertensive hypercholesterolaemic patients with 12 weeks of either pravastatin or placebo in this double blind, placebo controlled parallel group study. Placebo treatment did not alter plasma lipids, whereas 12 weeks' treatment with pravastatin reduced total cholesterol by 27% (from 7.1 +/- 0.27 to 5.2 +/- 0.18, p < 0.001 compared with placebo) and low density lipoprotein cholesterol by 35% (from 4.9 +/- 0.36 to 3.2 +/- 0.17, p < 0.001). There were no changes in systolic or diastolic blood pressure either following 12 weeks' treatment or 3 weeks' withdrawal of pravastatin. Thus, pravastatin remains efficacious as a lipid lowering agent in the presence of antihypertensive therapy but does not enhance the blood pressure lowering action of these drugs. Therefore it is unlikely that blood pressure reduction is the mechanism by which pravastatin mediates its reported short term effects on cardiovascular morbidity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7706943
The effects of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors on the metabolism of apolipoprotein (apo) B-containing lipoproteins appear to differ according to the predominant lipoprotein profiles present and the condition being treated. In familial hypercholesterolemia, with isolated low density lipoprotein (LDL) elevations, the LDL-apoB elimination rate is increased by up-regulated LDL-receptors. In familial combined hyperlipidemia where very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) and LDL both may be increased and enhanced production of LDL-apoB may be present, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors seem to diminish increased LDL-apoB production. The drug-induced decreases in LDL-apoB production could be due to decreased production of precursor VLDL-apoB or due to decreased conversion of VLDL-apoB to LDL-apoB after enhanced removal of VLDL by up-regulated LDL-receptors. To distinguish between these possibilities, we assessed the effects of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in another condition in which there is both apoB overproduction and accumulation of VLDL and LDL in plasma, the nephrotic syndrome. We used endogenous labeling of apoB with [13C]leucine and a multicompartmental model to calculate the metabolic parameters of apoB-containing lipoproteins. Only subjects with focal segmental glomerular sclerosis (FSGS) were included, as FSGS is a chronic, very slowly progressive form of nephrotic syndrome. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover design was used. Treatment periods of 6 weeks were separated by a 2-week washout period. Of the four men studied, three had high triglyceride levels and four had high cholesterol levels. Lovastatin (20 mg/day) significantly decreased cholesterol (27.6 +/- 6%), LDL-cholesterol (27.6 +/- 9%) and plasma apoB (17.9 +/- 2.9%) (P < 0.01 for all). During the placebo period, calculation of kinetic parameters revealed VLDL-, intermediate density lipoprotein (IDL)-, and LDL-apoB overproduction and decreased VLDL-apoB fractional catabolic rate. Lovastatin significantly decreased LDL-apoB production rate in all cases (34.1 +/- 14%, P = 0.03). The decreased LDL-apoB was mainly due to a channelling of LDL precursors away from conversion to LDL (conversion of VLDL to LDL decreased from 80.6 +/- 8.3% to 55.9 +/- 17.2%, P = 0.05). Thus, lovastatin decreased LDL-cholesterol in nephrotic subjects mainly by inhibiting LDL-apoB production from VLDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7710266
Familial xanthomatous hypercholesterolemia is a metabolic disorder associated with high LDL levels attributed to a familial defect in LDL receptor activity. We have previously shown that hyperlipoproteinemia of WHHL rabbits, considered to be a model for heritable hypercholesterolemia, was at least partly of exogenous origin. We have though studied retinyl palmitate (RP) levels 12 h after a standardized mixed meal as a simple test to detect abnormalities of intestinal-derived lipoprotein clearance in 22 familial hypercholesterolemic patients with xanthomatosis (13 of them treated by simvastatin, an HMGCoA reductase inhibitor, and 9 not treated), as compared to a control group (n = 12). Total and LDL cholesterol, plasma triglyceride and apo B levels were significantly higher in patients when compared to controls. Mean RP levels appeared higher in familial hypercholesterolemic patients, when compared to controls, with 6 among 22 patients showing clearly high vitamin A levels and 4 borderline values, whereas high triglyceride levels (> 2 g/l) were detected in only 1 patient. No patients within the group with high vitamin A levels showed an apo E2/E2 phenotype. Vitamin A levels correlated with plasma triglycerides in the whole group of subjects (r = 0.50, p < 0.05). No difference was observed in vitamin A distribution between treated and untreated hypercholesterolemic patients. Our results indicate that the clearance of RP-labeled intestinal lipoproteins is delayed in some xanthomatous familial hypercholesterolemic patients as compared with that of controls. These findings suggest that familial xanthomatous hypercholesterolemia may be heterogenous concerning physiopathological mechanisms inducing hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7711417
Thirty patients with familial defective apolipoprotein B-100 were treated in a two-period (8 weeks each) cross-over study with pravastatin and gemfibrozil. Cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and apo B were reduced by 20-25% (P < 10(-4)) by pravastatin and by 4-6% by gemfibrozil (pravastatin vs. gemfibrozil: P < 10(-4)). Response to pravastatin was variable and not correlated to gender, age, or apo E genotype. Gemfibrozil lowered triglycerides by 25% (P < 10(-4)) and raised HDL cholesterol by 11%. The effects of pravastatin on these two interrelated variables were significantly smaller. Both drugs increased Lp(a) significantly by about 10%. The LDL cholesterol lowering effect of pravastatin in patients with FDB is similar to that observed in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7712482
Mevalonate is the precursor of a number of different products potentially required for the growth of cells, including the prenylated oncoprotein Ras. To determine whether inhibition of mevalonate metabolism would selectively block proliferation of Ras-transformed cells, 6-fluoromevalonate (Fmev), an inhibitor of diphosphomevalonate decarboxylase, was used to block the synthesis of prenyl-derived lipids and prenylated proteins in interleukin-3 (IL-3)-dependent FDC-P1 cells (control FDC-P1 cells) and FDC-P1 cells transformed with oncogenic Ras (RasDC cells) that proliferated in the absence of IL-3. Fmev completely inhibited synthesis of prenyl-derived lipids and prenylated proteins and blocked proliferation of FDC-P1 and RasDC cells. Restoration of the proliferation of Fmev-blocked FDC-P1 cells required both an exogenous source of cholesterol and prevention of the accumulation of mevalonate and the mevalonate phosphates with lovastatin. In contrast, ongoing IL-3-independent proliferation of Fmev-blocked RasDC cells was not completely restored by providing exogenous cholesterol and preventing the accumulation of inhibitory mevalonate product(s). However, these cells proliferated when cultures were supplemented with IL-3 together with exogenous cholesterol and lovastatin, implying that Fmev had prevented Ras-dependent, IL-3-independent growth. Fmev markedly diminished total cellular Ras in RasDC cells. In contrast, lovastatin depleted membrane-associated Ras and increased cytosolic Ras but did not diminish total cellular Ras. These data indicate that Fmev depletes total cellular Ras and specifically inhibits the autonomous growth of Ras-transformed cells.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7715916
150 patients suffering from primary hypercholesterolemia were divided into three different groups receiving (1) lovastatin, (2) simvastatin, or (3) fenofibrate as controls. The aim of the study was to detect possible drug-induced ocular side effects, especially in the lens. The study period was 2 years. Ophthalmological examination and Scheimpflug photography were performed at the beginning and every 6 months. Increases or decreases in the visual acuity were distributed very similarly in the three groups. Definite evidence of side effects was not found, nor was there evidence of deleterious effects on refraction. The intraocular pressure revealed intraindividual fluctuations without clinical significance. Many changes were observed in the lens, all were minimal, including those of the extreme lens periphery which had no effect on visual acuity. The present study shows the great value of Scheimpflug photography with densitometric image analyses because of its objectivity when compared with other methods. Our observations provide good evidence that lovastatin and simvastatin have no undesirable toxic effects on the lens and other ocular tissues, compared with fenofibrate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7717016
The problem of hypercholesterolemia following heart transplantation (HTx) is often underestimated. Up to now there is no concept of therapy allowing an optimal adjustment of lipid parameters. Therapeutical trials using ion exchange resins, derivates of nicotinic acids and fibrates were not successful due to Cyclosporin A interaction, hepatotoxicity and limited efficacy of the applied substances. In a prospective, randomized and controlled trial, we investigated the effects of monotherapy with the HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitor Simvastatin in heart transplant recipients. The study included 70 patients (Simvastatin n = 37, control group n = 33). Eight patients died within the first 3 month postoperatively following HTx. Purpose of the study was adjustment of LDL-cholesterol-values in the Simvastatin-treated group to < 110 mg/dl. Following 24 months of treatment a mean LDL-cholesterol-plasma level of 110 mg/dl was obtained. The corresponding mean value of the control group was 150 mg/dl. The difference between both groups was significant (p < .001). In the same period the mean HDL-cholesterol values increased by approximately 15% in both groups. The ratio of LDL-/HDL-cholesterol was significantly lower in the Simvastatin treated group (2.28) than in the control group (2.94) (p < .01). There was no significant difference in Lp(a)-values. No adverse effects were observed within the following period of 24 months, particularly no increase in the frequency of rejection episodes. The drug induced hypercholesterolemia following HTx could be treated safely and effectively by low-dose Simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7722549
The objectives of this cross-sectional study presented as the first stage of a cohort follow-up pharmacoepidemiological study of lipid modulators, are to determine the extent and pattern of use of antihyperlipidemics and concomitant drugs and to compare antihyperlipidemic subgroups. The study population are the 17,244 respondents to the 1991 questionnaire in which questions on drug utilization were asked for the first time. It comprises 40.5% of the men and 32% of the women of the population originally targeted in 1989, i.e. the entire workforce of a national company within an age range of 35-45 years for men and 35-50 years for women. Self-reported health events and drug use over the previous year were measured. Overall 1 year prevalence of use of lipid lowering drugs was 7.7% (9.5% in men and 2.7% in women). Most antihyperlipidemics were fibrates (n = 878), with fenofibrate ranking above ciprofibrate, as opposed to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (n = 436), principally simvastatin. Only 60% of antihyperlipidemic drug users were following a prescribed lipid-lowering diet; over half were taking other drugs concomitantly, most often b-blockers. The simvastatin group differs from the fibrate group by an excess of prevalent thyroid disease. The link between simvastatin and thyroid disease may be indication-related. In conclusion, the relevant features of this study are the extensive use of antihyperlipidemics, frequently, without concomitant diet, and the marked preference for antihyperlipidemics for which long term safety is unknown. Extent of use and choices of antihyperlipidemics are corroborated by estimations in the general middle-aged population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7725511
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7728297
It is speculated that, as a result of its tissue selectivity, pravastatin may be a safer drug than the lipophilic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl Coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors in combination therapy involving drugs with potential muscle toxicity. Several studies have shown specific inhibitory activity on hepatic cholesterogenesis and a potent induction of hepatic low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors. However, data about its effect on stimulation of LDL receptor activity on non-hepatic cells are not available.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7729012
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7730777
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7730896
We studied the reproducibility of measurement of ultrasonographically assessed common carotid intima-media thickness and assessed whether measurement error of intima-media thickness occurred randomly or was associated with potential determinants of atherosclerosis. Eighty participants of the Rotterdam Study underwent a second ultrasound scan of both carotid arteries within 3 months of the first scan. The replicate measurements involved the posterior intima-media thickness of the distal common carotid artery. Mean differences (SD) in intima-media thickness of the right common carotid artery between paired measurements of sonographers, readers and visits were -0.004 mm (0.10), 0.066 mm (0.07), and -0.013 mm (0.13), respectively. Similar results were obtained for the left common carotid artery. Measurement error of intima-media thickness, i.e. the absolute difference in measurements between two subsequent visits, increased significantly with increasing common carotid intima-media thickness. This association disappeared after logarithmical transformation of the intima-media thickness data. Age, sex, smoking, body mass index, serum lipids, fibrinogen, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were not significantly associated with the measurement error of intima-media thickness. Our findings indicate that measurements of common carotid intima-media thickness are highly reproducible. Measurement error of intima-media thickness is small and appears to be proportional with the level of intima-media thickness and is not significantly associated with most risk factors for atherosclerotic vessel wall disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7733005
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7734010
HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (or statins), a new class of lipid-lowering compounds, have raised expectations for more widespread use than that of the older lipid-lowering drugs. Not only are they more effective in lowering LDL cholesterol, but they are better tolerated as well. No data exist concerning the effect of statins on early carotid atherosclerosis and clinical events in men and women who have moderately elevated LDL cholesterol levels but are free of symptomatic cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7735713
New information on the effects of lipid-lowering drugs is reviewed with an emphasis on special groups that benefit from specific drug therapy. Although it has been shown that the diet may further enhance the effectiveness of lipid-lowering drugs, compliance to diet and drugs remains an important issue and the large individual variations in dietary responses should be studied more extensively. The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors are safe and effective in different populations such as in women, elderly people and in special cases of secondary hyperlipidaemia. More widespread implementation of screening programmes to identify suitable patients for lipid-lowering therapy may help prevent the excess utilization of health care resources.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7735716
Lipoprotein (a) has been implicated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. Recently, considerable progress has been made toward understanding the importance of genetics in the regulation of plasma levels of lipoprotein (a). However, the issue as to whether lipoprotein (a) levels should be treated is still debated and furthermore the possibilities to influence lipoprotein (a) levels remain limited. The potential clinical importance of lipoprotein (a) has stimulated interest in the dietary and pharmacologic agents that affect this lipoprotein. At present, only a few of the existing therapeutic tools, such as nicotinic acid and estrogens, have been found to consistently affect lipoprotein (a).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7737266
The objective of this study was to assess the relationship between therapy with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor simvastatin and muscle damage and the possible causal role of hypercholesterolaemia. The exercise-induced release of muscle proteins as a parameter of muscle damage was studied in two equicholesterolaemic groups of male patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH); one group without treatment, the second group on simvastatin. To assess the role of cholesterol, a third group of healthy male volunteers was studied as well. The study took place at the Lipid Clinic of an 800-bed University Hospital. One group of 21 male patients with heterozygous FH did not receive treatment, except for a lipid-lowering diet. A second group of 13 male FH patients were treated with 40 mg simvastatin day-1 for at least 1 year and matched for cholesterol levels with the first group. A third group consisted of 25 normocholesterolaemic male controls. All subjects underwent a 45 min lean body mass (LBM) standardized ergometer muscle provocation test (2 Watt/kg LBM). Levels of creatine kinase (CK) and myoglobin (Mb) were assessed before and 1 and 8 h after exercise and compared with baseline levels. The exercise-induced release of muscle proteins is reflected by peak CK and Mb levels expressed as a percentage of baseline levels. The exercise-induced increase in Mb and CK levels did not differ between untreated and simvastatin-treated FH patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7741833
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of controlled-release niacin in patients with hyperlipoproteinemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7742151
1. In this double-blind, placebo controlled, prospective study, it was assessed whether simvastatin or pravastatin monotherapy have adverse effects on muscle histology and muscle membrane permeability in hypercholesterolaemic patients. 2. Twenty-four patients, seven females and 17 males, with primary hypercholesterolaemia (LDL cholesterol levels > or = 4.14 mmol l-1) were selected from the outpatient lipid clinic of a 650 bed academic medical centre. 3. After a 6-week lipid lowering diet and placebo period, patients were randomized into two groups of 12 subjects with similar characteristics, to receive either simvastatin or pravastatin in dosages of 10-40 mg day-1 for three periods of 6 weeks. After each 3-week period the dose was adjusted to LDL cholesterol to aim for equipotent dosage. 4. All subjects performed a 45 min, lean body mass standardized bicycle ergometer test, before and after 18 weeks of treatment. As parameter for muscle damage, the exercise-induced rise of the muscle proteins, creatine kinase (CK) and myoglobin (Mb), relative to pre-exercise levels, were determined 1 and 8 h after the test. Forty-eight hours after each test a biopsy was taken from the quadriceps muscle and histology was judged by three independent observers. 5. Eighteen weeks of monotherapy with simvastatin and pravastatin did not affect the exercise induced release of CK and Mb, neither were any differences observed in muscle histology before and after treatment with either of the drugs. 6. Although simvastatin doses were lower than pravastatin, reductions in total- and LDL-cholesterol were greater in the simvastatin treated patients than in the pravastatin treated group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7743614
Intensive lowering of serum cholesterol may retard progression of coronary atherosclerosis in selected groups of patients. However, few data are available on the potential benefit of serum cholesterol reduction in the broad range of patients with coronary atherosclerosis and normal to moderately elevated serum cholesterol levels who undergo various forms of treatment. The Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS) addresses this group of patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7743787
To compare the effectiveness and costs of two alternative approaches to the treatment of hypercholesterolemia, a prospective randomized trial is being undertaken at Southern California Kaiser Permanente, a large health maintenance organization. Six hundred and twelve patients with postdiet LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in the range of 190-230 mg/dl (or 160-230 mg/dl for those with coronary heart disease or two or more coronary risk factors) were randomized to a stepped-care regimen (initial treatment with niacin followed by other agents if needed) or to initial use of lovastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. All patients are being followed for 1 year. The study seeks to approximate conditions of typical clinical practice: provider compliance with these plans of treatment is encouraged but not enforced and patients pay for medication as they customarily would. Principal outcomes of interest include the proportion of participants who achieve goal LDL-C at one year, the mean change in total cholesterol and LDL-C levels between baseline and the end of follow-up, and the costs of cholesterol-lowering therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7743788
A prerandomization placebo run-in period is often used in an attempt to exclude potential clinical trial participants who are likely to be poor adheres. It is assumed that potential participants who are poor adherers during the run-in will be less likely to take medication during the trial. This assumption was tested in the Cholesterol Reduction in Seniors Program (CRISP), by prescribing placebo for a 3-week period, but not using the results of the run-in as an entry criterion. The CRISP study was a pilot study designed to compare the effects on lipids and the safety of two doses of lovastatin and placebo in persons 65 years of age and older. After general entry criteria were satisfied, each participant was prescribed placebo for a 3-week period. At the end of the 3-week period, all participants were randomized to one of the three treatment groups, regardless of their adherence to the placebo. Of the 431 participants in the study, 66 (15%) who took less than 80% of the prescribed placebo or who failed to return their unused placebo pills were classified as poor run-in adherers. Poor run-in adherence was associated with lower educational attainment. At 3 and 6 months of follow-up mean adherence was 89.3% and 83.4% among all participants. Exclusion of poor run-in adherers would have increased these means to 90.9% and 85.5%, respectively. Treatment effect as measured by fall in LDL cholesterol would have increased by 2.9 mg/dl in the 40 mg/day dose group at 3 months of follow-up with the addition of a placebo run-in. We conclude that a placebo run-in would have had little effect on the outcome of the CRISP study and would have substantially increased recruitment difficulties. Lower educated persons were more likely to be excluded by a placebo run-in, but the effect of the run-in on follow-up adherence was stronger in less educated participants. More research about the role of a placebo run-in is needed in order to determine the appropriate role of this method in clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7746058
We examined the relation between the risk of major coronary events (coronary death and non-fatal myocardial infarction) and baseline cholesterol levels in patients with coronary heart disease, randomised to placebo or simvastatin therapy in the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S). The relative risk reduction in the simvastatin group was 35% (95% CI 15-50) in the lowest quartile of baseline low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol and 36% (19-49) in the highest. Simvastatin significantly reduced the risk of major coronary events in all quartiles of baseline total, high-density-lipoprotein, and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, by a similar amount in each quartile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7746199
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7751423
The bioavailability of pravastatin, a hypocholesterolmic agent, may be enhanced by decreasing its exposure to stomach contents, where it may be converted nonenzymatically to a relatively inactive metabolite. The pharmacokinetics of pravastatin and its metabolite were determined after infusion of pravastatin directly into the stomach (locus for greatest bioavailability for the metabolite), duodenum (greatest bioavailability for pravastatin), jejunum, or ileum. An enterically coated formulation of pravastatin may increase its bioavailability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7751822
We measured serum lathosterol levels and whole body cholesterol synthesis by sterol balance in 12 human subjects on a metabolic ward in four randomly allocated, 6-7 week periods: 1) lovastatin (40 mg b.i.d.) + low cholesterol diet (mean 246 mg/day); 2) lovastatin + high cholesterol diet (mean 1071 mg/day); 3) low cholesterol diet alone; and 4) high cholesterol diet alone. Whole body cholesterol synthesis was significantly reduced both by lovastatin (P = 0.0004) and by high dietary cholesterol (P = 0.0005). Serum total lathosterol (micrograms/dl) was reduced by lovastatin (P < 0.0001), but was not significantly altered (and actually tended to increase) during consumption of the high cholesterol diet, presumably because eggs contained appreciable lathosterol as demonstrated by direct analysis. Results were similar for total versus free lathosterol and for lathosterol expressed as micrograms/dl serum versus micrograms/100 mg cholesterol. We conclude that serum lathosterol does not reflect changes in cholesterol synthesis induced by dietary cholesterol. Studies using serum lathosterol as an indicator of cholesterol synthesis must be carefully controlled for dietary cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7752281
This article describes the recruitment of elderly black subjects into the Cholesterol Reduction in Seniors Program (CRISP), a federal, multi-center, randomized, double-masked feasibility study of cholesterol intervention in the elderly. The study tested the feasibility of recruiting significant numbers of hypercholesterolemic black men, black women, and white women over the age of 65, groups previously underrepresented in federal trials. The study involved dietary modification and drug intervention with either 20 mg or 40 mg of lovastatin or placebo. Maximum follow-up was 18 months. Over the 12-month screening and recruitment period, 431 subjects (108% of the recruitment goal) were randomized. A total of 311 (72% of the study cohort) was female; 105 subjects (24% of the total cohort) were minorities. Media sources were most effective in recruiting white subjects. Church screening was an effective strategy in the black community, although such an approach required considerable resources s and time. The CRISP feasibility study demonstrated that a large cohort of elderly black subjects could be recruited in a cholesterol intervention trial, although the use of community-based approaches required substantial resources and staff time.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7752405
The Thrombolysis in Myocardial Ischemia trial randomized patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction and found that thrombolytic therapy was not beneficial and may be harmful. Drug treatment of hypercholesterolemia improves survival in patients with established coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7758262
Patients with Type 2 diabetes are at increased risk from macrovascular disease whether or not they are hyperlipidaemic. Several factors may contribute to this increased risk including abnormalities of lipoprotein composition. The aim of our study was to determine the effects of lipid lowering drugs on lipoprotein composition (lipoprotein fractions were separated by sequential flotation ultracentrifugation) and insulin sensitivity (measured by a modified Harano technique) in 44 patients with mild hyperlipidaemia. All patients had total cholesterol concentrations between 5.2 and 6.5 mmol l-1 and total triglyceride concentrations < 3.0 mmol l-1, and were randomized by minimization to receive treatment for 12 weeks with bezafibrate, acipimox, simvastatin or placebo. Total cholesterol concentrations were decreased by simvastatin, 5.7 +/- 0.4 to 3.7 +/- 0.6 mmol l-1 (p < 0.05), due mainly to reduced LDL-cholesterol levels (-1.25 mmol l-1; p < 0.05), and bezafibrate 5.7 +/- 0.6 to 4.6 +/- 0.4 mmol l-1 (p < 0.05). The LDL:HDL-cholesterol ratio was reduced in the simvastatin group 2.0 +/- 0.5 to 1.2 +/- 0.3 (p < 0.005). There was no effect of the drugs on glycated haemoglobin or insulin sensitivity. In conclusion bezafibrate and simvastatin improve the lipid profile in Type 2 diabetic patients without adversely affecting diabetic control.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7760966
To study the long-term efficacy and safety of the cholesterol synthesis inhibitor, simvastatin, in the treatment of familial hypercholesterolaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7761664
Atherosclerosis and its complications are the main cause of death and disability in affluent nations, especially in the elderly population. Lipids and lipoproteins play an important role in its pathogenesis. The authors treated a group of elderly patients with Simvastatin (20 mg/day for 1 year), a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor and observed a significant reduction in total cholesterol (p < 0.001). LDL (p < 0.001) and beta apolipoproteins (p < 0.05). They also achieved regression of the atherosclerotic plaque in 5 patients and arrested the atherosclerotic process in 8. The authors intend to conduct further studies in this field to better define the action of Simvastin on the atherosclerotic plaque.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7762089
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7762498
Heparin-induced extracorporeal low-density lipoprotein (LDL) precipitation (HELP) treatments selectively remove LDL with minimal effects on high-density lipoproteins (HDL), but limited data are available on effects between treatments. The levels of factors associated with increased coronary artery disease risk (atherogenic) among treatments may have therapeutic significance, especially for combined HELP and lipid-lowering drug therapy. Hypercholesterolemic and combined hyperlipidemic patients resistant to diet/drug therapy were treated with biweekly HELP therapy. Hypercholesterolemic patients received either lovastatin or no drug, whereas combined hyperlipidemic patients received gemfibrozil. Plasma lipid (total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, and HDL cholesterol) and apolipoprotein A-I, A-II, B, C-III, and E levels were measured before treatment, then immediately, and 2, 4, 7, and 14 days after treatments (n = 28). Atherogenic factor (LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, apolipoprotein B) levels decreased > 50% with treatment, gradually increasing over 14 days to pretreatment levels. Factors associated with reduced coronary artery disease risk (HDL cholesterol and apolipoproteins A-I and A-II) decreased 8% to 16% but recovered by 2 days. Components of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (triglycerides and apolipoproteins C-III and E) decreased 38% to 55% with variable post-treatment recoveries. Lovastatin reduced pretreatment levels of atherogenic and triglyceride-rich lipoprotein components and slowed post-treatment increases compared with no drug therapy. Gemfibrozil produced changes similar to lovastatin. Drug therapy had little effect on factors associated with reduced coronary artery disease risk. HELP apheresis produced large reductions in plasma atherogenic factor levels with gradual return to pretreatment levels over 14 days, whereas antiatherogenic factors were minimally reduced and recovered rapidly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7762499
The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists' Collaboration aims to provide reliable information about the effects on mortality and morbidity of treatments that modify blood lipid levels for a wide range of patient populations and risk groups. This protocol prospectively defines study eligibility, the main questions to be addressed, and statistical methods to be used. Additionally, by establishing a register of ongoing and planned trials prior to any trial results being known, this systematic overview attempts to avoid the methodologic problems and potential data-dependency of a retrospective project. The collaboration expects to have individual patient data on > 60,000 subjects by the year 2000, including 12,000 women and 20,000 elderly subjects, and should have good power to examine any effects on non-coronary artery disease events. Overall, there should be about 1,900 non-coronary artery disease deaths and > 2,000 total cancer events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7765570
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7768495
3-hydroxy,3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors reduce biliary cholesterol saturation index (CSI) in duodenal bile in hypercholesterolemic patients and might be useful for gallstone dissolution. However, preliminary data suggest that these drugs are not effective in this respect. We therefore studied 33 patients with radiolucent gallstones in an opacifying gallbladder who were scheduled for elective cholecystectomy. Patients were treated with 40 mg pravastatin day-1 or placebo during the 3 weeks before surgery. Six patients could not be evaluated. Baseline characteristics (age, sex, body mass index, serum cholesterol, and the solitary/multiple gallstone ratio) were similar in both groups. Serum cholesterol fell by 39% in the pravastatin group (P < .001) and remained unchanged in the placebo group. Biliary cholesterol (9.5 +/- 1.3 vs. 14.3 +/- 1.5 mmol/L, P = .026), and phospholipid concentrations (24.8 +/- 3.9 vs. 36.7 +/- 3.9 mmol/L, P = .043) were lower in the pravastatin group. Although bile salt concentrations were lower in the pravastatin group (114 +/- 21 vs. 152 +/- 15 mmol/L), this difference was not significant. CSI was not different between both groups (142 +/- 27% [pravastatin] vs. 113 +/- 6% [placebo], P = NS). Cholesterol crystals were present in fresh bile in 7 of 13 patients in the pravastatin group and in 11 of 14 controls (P = NS). Nucleation time was comparable between the 2 groups (13 +/- 3 vs. 9 +/- 3 days, P = NS). Bile salt species and molecular species of phospholipids determined with high-performance liquid chromatography did not differ either between both groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7771954
To verify eventual difference observed in the efficacy and safety of lovastatin (L) when compared to pravastatin (P), considering increasing doses up to the maximum and recommended ones in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7773032
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7774989
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of gemfibrozil, compared with lovastatin, in patients with high levels of lipoprotein(a) and on plasma lipid profile. Twenty-seven nondiabetic patients with high levels of plasma lipids and lipoprotein(a), 19 male and eight female, aged 37-68 (mean +/- S.D. 54.2 +/- 7.5) years, were randomly assigned to 2 weeks of treatment with gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily (14 pts.) or lovastatin 40-80 mg once daily (13 pts.). Patients had fasting plasma total cholesterol levels > or = 6.2 mmol/l, low-density lipoprotein > 4.14 mmol/l and lipoprotein(a) > 0.62 mmol/l. All patients but one had triglycerides > 2.82 mmol/l. There were no statistical differences between both groups in terms of age, sex, clinical diagnosis and previous medication. After 3 months of treatment, gemfibrozil reduced triglycerides (47.9% vs. 24.5%; P < 0.001), very low density lipoprotein (43.9% vs. 24.6%; P < 0.05), lipoprotein(a) (25.3% vs. 4.9%; P < 0.05) and increased high-density lipoprotein (34.4% vs. 11%; P < 0.01) more than lovastatin. Gemfibrozil and lovastatin reduced comparably total cholesterol (21.4% vs. 29.0%; P = NS) and low-density lipoprotein (26.5% vs. 37.3%; P = NS). The plasma levels of high-density lipoprotein and lipoprotein(a) were unchanged significantly by lovastatin. In conclusion, besides well-known efficacy in hyperlipidemia treatment, gemfibrozil also increased high-density lipoprotein and reduced lipoprotein(a), which may have important epidemiologic implications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7783286
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7784310
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7788650
The association between hypercholesterolemia and premature atherosclerosis is almost universally accepted. Treatment of hyperlipoproteinemias represents a reasonable approach in preventive cardiology. The aim of the study was to prove a hypolipidemic effect of simvastatin, Zocor tablets  10 mg, produced by MSD, U:S.A. in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7788948
The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors lovastatin and pravastatin have both proven to be effective and well tolerated in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. To evaluate whether lovastatin or pravastatin might affect daytime cognitive function, a double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period, incomplete block, crossover study was performed in 36 patients (24 per treatment) with primary hypercholesterolemia. Patients received placebo, lovastatin (40 mg), or pravastatin (40 mg) for 4 weeks. Following a 1-week washout period, patients were crossed over to either lovastatin, pravastatin, or placebo for an additional 4 weeks. Mental performance tests (digit symbol substitution, choice reaction time, auditory vigilance, selective reminding word recall, finger tapping), visual analogue rating scales, and the Profile of Mood States were administered before test drug administration and after 2 and 4 weeks of each treatment. After 4 weeks, no statistically significant differences between treatments in changes from baseline were observed on any parameter with the exception of digit symbol substitution, for which lovastatin and pravastatin were both significantly better than placebo but did not differ from each other. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol was reduced 38% by lovastatin and 30% by pravastatin. In summary, neither of these chemically distinct HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors impaired daytime cognitive performance after 4 weeks of treatment in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7791813
While HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors such as fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin demonstrate lack of in vitro and in vivo mutagenicity and clastogenicity in bacterial and mammalian cells, long term rodent carcinogenicity studies resulted in an increased incidence in neoplasms at high doses. These effects may be attributable to an exaggeration of the desired biochemical effect of the drug and/or a tumor promoting effect. The genotoxicity of atorvastatin, a newly developed HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, was evaluated in a variety of test systems. In bacterial mutagenicity tests, the E. coli tester strain WP2(uvrA) and S. typhimurium strains TA98, TA100, TA1535, TA1537, and TA1538 were exposed to concentrations of atorvastatin as high as 5000 micrograms/plate both in the absence (S9-) and presence (S9+) of metabolic activation. Atorvastatin was not mutagenic in either E. coli or S. typhimurium. Chinese hamster lung V79 cell cultures were exposed to atorvastatin at concentrations of 50-300 micrograms/ml (S9-) and 100-300 micrograms/ml (S9+) and structural chromosome aberrations were assessed. Mutation at the hgprt locus was assessed at concentrations of 100-300 micrograms/ml (S9-) and 150-275 micrograms/ml (S9+). Atorvastatin was neither mutagenic nor clastogenic in the absence or presence of S9. The lack of in vitro genotoxicity was corroborated in vivo in a mouse micronucleus study in which single oral doses of atorvastatin were administered to male and female CD-1 mice at 1, 2500, or 5000 mg/kg. No biologically significant increases in the frequency of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes in bone marrow at 24, 48, or 72 h postdosing were observed. Thus, atorvastatin, as with the other tested HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, is not genotoxic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7791863
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7792841
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7792848
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7792916
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793393
In mortality studies of patients after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), exclusion of patients during selection from the screened population may be important for evaluating the impact of trials, but data on patients excluded from studies are rarely presented. In the Trandolapril Cardiac Evaluation (TRACE) trial of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor trandolapril versus placebo in patients with left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction shortly after AMI, medical history, infarct complication, and survival were accounted for in all patients screened for entry. A total of 7,001 consecutive enzyme-confirmed AMIs were screened for entry in 27 Danish coronary care units. The 1-year mortality of all screened AMI cases was 23% (95% confidence interval 22% to 24%). The target population of the TRACE trial were patients with LV systolic dysfunction (echocardiographically determined wall motion index < or = 1.2, n = 2,606 within 6 days of AMI. The 1-year mortality of this group was 34 +/- 2%. Patients with wall motion index > 1.2 (n = 3,920) had a 1-year mortality of 12 +/- 1%. were excluded. A total of 1,749 were included in the study. The excluded and included groups had a 1-year mortality of 54 +/- 3% and 24 +/- 2%, respectively. The result of the TRACE study will be applicable to two thirds of the patients with LV systolic dysfunction; however, even with this high figure, care should be taken in extrapolating the result to the general population with reduced LV function after AMI since the group excluded from the study had a higher mortality than those who were included.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793401
Prediction of accessory pathway location before radio-frequency ablation has become increasingly important for patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. However, existing electrocardiographic (ECG) criteria for localization of accessory pathways have several limitations, and the polarity of delta waves has not been well defined. In the present study, 369 patients with a single anterogradely conducting accessory pathway who underwent successful radiofrequency ablation were included. The polarity of delta waves was defined and categorized in detail, and various ECG characteristics of the most preexcited QRS complexes were examined and compared with QRS complexes after successful ablation in the initial 182 patients, which included morphology and polarity of delta waves, initial 20, 40, and 60 ms segments of the preexcited QRS complex, R/S ratio in the precordial leads, R/S ratio in the frontal leads, delta wave axis in the frontal plane, polarity of delta waves in the frontal leads, and polarity of delta waves in the precordial leads. The polarity of the initial 40 ms segment of the most preexcited QRS complexes in each of the frontal leads, and the polarity of the initial 60 ms segment of the most preexcited QRS complex in each of the precordial leads proved to be the best representatives of delta wave polarity in the respective leads.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793402
The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy and safety of amiodarone to maintain sinus rhythm in patients with refractory atrial fibrillation or flutter. One hundred ten patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter, refractory to > or = 1 class I antiarrhythmic agents (mean +/- SD 2.5 +/- 1.5, median 2), were given low-dose amiodarone (mean maintenance dose 268 +/- 100 mg/day) to determine its efficacy to maintain normal sinus rhythm after chemical or electrical cardioversion. Fifty-three patients had chronic and 57 patients had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter. Mean age of the study population was 60 +/- 13 years, and the mean follow-up was 36 +/- 38 months (range 31 days to 137 months). Actuarial rates for maintenance of sinus rhythm were 0.87, 0.70, and 0.55 at 1, 3, and 5 years, respectively. Twenty-one patients (19%) with arrhythmia recurrence had an increase in amiodarone dose, and after a mean additional follow-up of 2.5 years, 86% remained in normal sinus rhythm. The only observed predictor of atrial fibrillation or flutter recurrence was paroxysmal arrhythmia (40% recurrence vs 9% in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation or flutter; p < 0.001). Actuarial rates for withdrawal because of adverse effects were 0.08, 0.22, and 0.30 at 1, 3, and 5 years, respectively. The most frequent adverse effects necessitating withdrawal were skin discoloration (4.5%), pulmonary fibrosis (3.6%; none fatal), and thyroid toxicity (2.7%). No deaths occurred during the study period. In conclusion, amiodarone sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter, with a relatively low incidence of adverse effects necessitating withdrawal.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793403
Several investigators have demonstrated that changes in atrial or ventricular pressure and size may modulate changes in electrophysiologic properties. The coupling of mechanical and electrical changes in the heart has been termed mechano-electrical feedback and is believed to play a role in arrhythmias observed with mitral valve disease, congestive heart failure, and left ventricular hypertrophy. To avoid confounding influences of the autonomic nervous system on electrophysiologic measurements, we measured right atrial and ventricular pacing thresholds with temporary epicardial pacing wires, right ventricular monophasic action potential duration at 90% repolarization during right ventricular pacing at 600 and 400 ms, donor heart rate, systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial and central venous pressures in 22 patients after orthotopic heart transplantation. Each variable was measured at baseline, in the resting supine state, and during graded lower body negative pressure of -10, -20, and -30 mm Hg. All levels of lower body negative pressure resulted in a significant decrease in mean right atrial pressure up to 5 +/- 6 mm Hg at maximal lower body negative pressure, and a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure occurred only at -20 and -30 mm Hg. Lower body negative pressure did not result in a significant change in any electrophysiologic variable despite significant changes in right atrial pressure. Thus, in the denervated transplanted human heart, unloading of the right heart results in no or small changes in atrial or ventricular pacing thresholds and ventricular monophasic action potential duration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793410
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793412
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793414
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793415
The important role of alpha 1-adrenoceptors in reperfusion ventricular arrhythmia is mentioned in the introduction. However, the present report is concerned with the sinus node. It is speculated that the decreased positive chronotropic action of alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation due to aging may contribute to the development of sick sinus syndrome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7793418
We conclude that Lyme disease is not a common cause of idiopathic heart failure in the Midwestern United States and that false-positive Lyme disease serologic results are not rare among patients with severe heart failure. Patients with significant cardiac disease who are found to be EIA seropositive should have confirmatory Western blots performed before consideration of treatment. Based on our findings, we cannot recommend either the routine serologic screening of patients with idiopathic cardiomyopathy or aggressive (e.g., parenteral) antibiotic treatment of seropositive patients unless the specific clinical history suggests antecedent Lyme disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7798816
Patients with dyslipidemia were evaluated with regard to the 5 drugs regimen: simvastatin (average dose, 11.8 mg/day), gemfibrozil (dose 963 mg/day), bezafibrate (433 mg/day), fenofibrate (211 mg/day) and acipimox (667 mg/day). The responses to the drug were divided into different time periods and the magnitude of responses were presented either as average changes in per cent from baseline or as proportion of patients (also in %) whose levels changed by a predetermined percentage. These predetermined percentage took into account the variation observed among patients who had more than 3 measurements during baseline. These levels for significant changes were 16 per cent for total cholesterol (TC), 25-30 per cent for high- and low-density lipoprotein (HDL and LDL), and 44 per cent for triglyceride (TG). Our subjects responded to the drugs within the range reported by other investigators except for acipimox which produced no alteration. Sixty to 100 per cent of patients reduced their TC by 16 per cent with an average change in TC of around -16 per cent to -24 per cent. Simvastatin and fenofibrate appeared most effective in altering TC. The HDL increased 10 per cent to 29 per cent depending on the drug but in terms of proportion that responded by an increment greater than 25 per cent, this was seen in only 23 per cent to 45 per cent of the patients. Long term follow-up which was possible only on 42 patients showed 11 who lessened their response and 6 whose response became more marked.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7798847
Seventy eight patients with hypercholesterolemia from 4 major hospitals were studied with regard to their responses to an adjustable dose of simvastatin, a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. They were followed for up to 6 months with 4 sample points during the drug and 2 prior to therapy. The average dose was 10.2 mg/day (S.D. 5.5). Four were controlled on 5 mg and 4 needed 30 mg per day. Thirty seven per cent had elevated serum transaminases but none to greater than twice normal. Only a third of these showed elevation of transaminases during drug therapy alone. The mean total cholesterol (TC) was 304 mg/100 ml and low density lipoprotein (LDL) was 221 mg/100 ml. These fell 70 and 60 per cent respectively and over 90 per cent of the patients reduced their TC and LDL more than the limits defined from previous long term monitoring of patients (i.e. TC fell by more than 17% and LDL by 25%). High density lipoprotein, HDL, started off at 45 mg/100 ml and rose to an average of 115 per cent. Triglyceride, TG, started off at 207 mg/100 ml and fell to about 86 per cent during simvastatin. However, in terms of the proportion of patients who responded greater than the limit previously determined (i.e. more than a 25% change for HDL and 45% for TG), only about 20 per cent significantly responded with elevation of HDL and 13 per cent dropped their TG. The response of TG was more marked at TG greater than 300 mg/100 ml.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7801861
A total of 96 patients with moderate elevations of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol were randomly assigned to 4 different double-blind treatment regimens: placebo; colestipol 5 g and lovastatin 20 mg/day (C5 + L20); colestipol 10 g and lovastatin 20 mg/day (C10 + L20); and lovastatin 40 mg/day (L40). During 12 weeks of therapy, C10 + L20 achieved the greatest reduction in total cholesterol (-32%) and LDL cholesterol (-48%) levels from baseline. This combination also exhibited significantly greater reductions in LDL cholesterol levels than the C5 + L20 and L40 groups (p < 0.01). The differences in total and LDL cholesterol reduction between the C5 + L20 and L40 groups were not significant. Similar changes and differences between treatments were seen in apolipoprotein B levels. Whereas mean total apolipoprotein A-I levels increased with all treatments (p < 0.05), lipoprotein particles A-I were significantly increased in the C10 + L20 group (p < 0.01) only. Results demonstrate that the combination of low-dose lovastatin (20 mg/day) with low-dose colestipol (5 or 10 g/day) produces LDL cholesterol reductions equal to or greater than higher doses of lovastatin (40 mg/day). In addition, low-dose combinations are > 25% more cost-effective than high-dose monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7809382
The effects of acute exercise on the changes of plasma lipid profiles and peroxides, prostanoids and platelet activation in hypercholesterolemic patients before and after pravastatin 5 mg twice daily treatment for 4 weeks was studied in 30 (M/F = 21/9, age = 52 +/- 7, Mean +/- SD) patients with plasma total cholesterol level > 240 mg/dl. Pravastatin significantly reduced plasma total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels as expected. All patients before and after treatment and 30 healthy controls performed a treadmill exercise test using the standard Bruce protocol. The cardiac performance was similar in all groups. Treadmill exercise did not influence lipid levels after plasma volume correction. Hypercholesterolemic patients had significantly higher pre-exercise levels of malondialdehyde, thromboxane beta 2 and beta-thromboglobulin than after treatment or than pre-exercise levels in the control group. Treatment with lipid lowering drug pravastatin lowered the levels of these three parameters. At peak exercise, superoxide dismutase activity and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha were elevated. At 10 min post exercise only malondialdehyde returned to pre-exercise levels. The superoxide dismutase, thromboxane B2 and beta-thromboglobulin remained significantly higher. In the control subjects plasma beta-thromboglobulin and thromboxane 2 returned to pre-exercise levels. These results suggest that hypercholesterolemia may induce lipid peroxidation and platelet activation in resting status. Lowering of plasma cholesterol of pravastatin causes a concomitant decrease in plasma malondialdehyde, thromboxane and beta-thromboglobulin suggesting a decrease in lipid peroxidation and platelet activation. These changes were more pronounced in the hypercholesterolemic patients. Pravastatin treatment attenuated the increase in both malondialdehyde, beta-thromboglobulin and the prostanoids, but not to the level of normal subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7811124
Antithrombotic therapy is a mainstay in the treatment of patients with thromboembolic diseases of the arterial and venous circulatory systems. Continued work and investigation has provided much-needed information directly applicable to meeting high standards of patient care. The American College of Chest Physicians Consensus Conference on Antithrombotic Therapy has been instrumental in developing guidelines. This article is a synopsis of the proposed guidelines, including recent updates and information that will likely influence future recommendations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7812496
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7813167
In chronic renal failure hypertriglyceridemia is a well-known complication that persists during hemodialysis treatment: it may be one of the major risk factor for cardiovascular death in these patients. We studied the effects of two lipid lowering drugs; simvastatin (20 mg/day for six months) and probucol (500 mg/day for six months), on lipid profile in 12 hemodialysis patients. Simvastatin therapy reduced plasma total cholesterol by 26% (p > 0.002), LDL-cholesterol by 36% (p > 0.002) and triglycerides by 28% (p > 0.05): plasma HDL-cholesterol and apo-A were raised, but not significantly. Probucol therapy decreased plasma triglycerides by 38% (p > 0.05), total cholesterol by 15% and LDL-cholesterol by 19%: plasma HDL-cholesterol and apo-A were decreased but not significantly. No side effects occurred with either drug. These data suggest that in hemodialysis patients both simvastatin and probucol profoundly affect the lipid profile, as well as the triglyceride levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7823749
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7826828
1. In this randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, the efficacy of four dosages of fluvastatin (2.5, 5, 10 and 20 mg day-1) were assessed in 431 patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia recruited in 17 centres. 2. Following an 8-week dietary stabilisation phase and a 6-week placebo phase, the patients were randomised to receive placebo or fluvastatin 2.5, 5, 10 or 20 mg once daily at night for a period of 6 weeks. 3. Total cholesterol, beta-quant LDL-C, and the beta-quant LDL-C/HDL-C ratio were significantly reduced by all doses of fluvastatin, and HDL-C was significantly increased by the 10 mg and 20 mg doses. Fluvastatin 20 mg day-1 also significantly decreased TG and Lp(a):B levels. 4. Fluvastatin was well tolerated during the study, and relatively few biochemical or haematological abnormalities occurred. 5. Of the dosages tested, 20 mg fluvastatin day-1 is the optimal hypolipidaemic dose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7830728
Impaired endothelium-mediated relaxation contributes to vasospasm and myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. We hypothesized that cholesterol-lowering therapy with the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor lovastatin could improve endothelium-mediated responses in patients with coronary atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7830729
Patients with coronary artery disease and abnormalities of serum lipids often have endothelial vasodilator dysfunction, which may contribute to ischemic cardiac events. Whether cholesterol-lowering or antioxidant therapy can restore endothelium-dependent coronary vasodilation is unknown.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7830734
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7832145
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7836550
Sleep disturbances and decrements of daytime performance have been attributed to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. As a rule, lipophilic compounds more readily cross the blood-brain barrier and are more likely to affect central nervous system function. The authors compared the effects of lovastatin (40 mg), a lipophilic compound, to pravastatin (40 mg), a hydrophilic compound, in a 6-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, three-way Latin square design, cross-over study on 22 men with hypercholesterolemia. Patients had LDL cholesterol of more than 165 mg/dL and triglyceride of less than 350 mg/dL after 6 weeks of a low-fat (< 30%), low-cholesterol (< 300 mg/day) diet. Compared with placebo, there were no significant effects of lovastatin or pravastatin on the following subjective and polysomnographic sleep measures: changes in total sleep time, time in each sleep stage, sleep efficiency, sleep latency, REM density, REM activity, and number of arousals. Similarly, there were no effects of the two drugs on measures of cognitive performance. A significant increase in the duration of nocturnal tumescence (NPT) was observed after 2 weeks of treatment with both study drugs. This effect was not significant after 6 weeks of treatment. Both lovastatin and pravastatin caused significant (P < .05 compared with placebo) decreases in total cholesterol (by 20.9 and 20.6%, respectively), LDL cholesterol (by 27.8 and 29.9%), and triglycerides (by 13.6 and 3.7%). Subjects' HDL increased by 2.3% with lovastatin (NS) and by 3.1% with pravastatin (P < .05). Lipoprotein(a) increased by 20.5% with lovastatin and by 1.1% with pravastatin; these changes were not significantly different from placebo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7846795
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7848022
To test the potency of low-dose cholesterol-lowering drug therapy in patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia and to evaluate the effectiveness for cholesterol lowering of a safe regimen to be used in primary prevention of coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7851467
Hepatic VLDL overproduction in familial combined hyperlipidaemia (FCH) may delay the clearance of atherogenic apolipoprotein (apo) B containing particles. We investigated if normalization of fasting plasma triglycerides (TG) by hypolipidaemic treatment results in improved metabolism of apo B48 and apo B100 in six male subjects with FCH and compared them to six normolipidaemic controls. The FCH patients were studied before (TG, 5.2 +/- 1.2 mmol l-1; mean +/- SEM) and after therapy (TG, 2.1 +/- 0.3 mmol l-1) with either simvastatin (n = 4) or combined therapy with gemfibrozil (n = 2). The postprandial changes of apo B100 and apo B48 were studied after a single oral fat meal (24 h; 50 gram fat m-2). Changes in triglyceride rich particles (TRP; d < 1.006 g ml-1) and remnant fractions (REM; d:1.006-1.019 g ml-1) of apo B were quantitated by scanning silverstained SDS-PAGE (4-15%). Apo B48 in fasting TRP in untreated and treated FCH was 15% and 14% of total apo B, and 6% in controls (P < 0.05). In controls, postprandial B48 increased maximally at 4 h by 81% in TRP and by 137% in REM compared to baseline. In treated FCH, the postprandial apo B48 pattern normalized in TRP compared to the untreated state. Postprandial apo B100 in controls decreased in TRP and REM by 33% and 18% (P < 0.05). In untreated and treated FCH, postprandial apo B100 remained unchanged vs. baseline in TRP and in REM suggesting hypersecretion of VLDL. The elimination of B100--assessed as area under the curve--in TRP (32.5 +/- 3.6 au.h; mean +/- SEM) and REM fractions (33.2 +/- 3.1 au.h), improved significantly after treatment (21.0 +/- 2.8 and 20.4 +/- 3.3 au.h, respectively). The apo B48 clearance in TRP fractions was improved after treatment (4.3 +/- 1.4 au.h vs. 2.9 +/- 1.2 au.h; P = 0.06), but not in REM fractions (2.8 +/- 1.0 au.h vs. 1.8 +/- 0.5 au.h; NS). In conclusion, in FCH subjects with apo B100 hypersecretion and increased fasting plasma apo B48 levels, reduction of fasting plasma TG improved, but did not normalize, TRP apo B48 and B100 metabolism. However, therapy normalized postprandial apo B100 remnant metabolism. Impaired postprandial apo B metabolism may be instrumental in the development of premature atherosclerosis in FCH subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7856175
The therapeutic effects of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor pravastatin on plasma lipids were assessed in an open, prospective, multicenter trial over a treatment period of 3 months. Of a total of 1111 patients, the overall results were calculated from 715 evaluable patients (352 men and 363 women, mean age: 56.1 +/- 11.3 years) with primary isolated hypercholesterolemia (hyperlipoproteinemia type IIa according to Fredrickson) being at high risk for cardiovascular disease according to the classification of the national cholesterol consensus, whose guidelines are distinguishing between three risk levels (low, moderate, and high, respectively) of total-cholesterol (total-c) as well as LDL-c. The treatment period was preceded by a 3-month dietary counselling phase. Treatment with pravastatin significantly reduced total-c (23.8%, p < 0.001), LDL-c (31.9%, p < 0.001) and triglyceride (16.9%, p < 0.001) levels, concomitantly those of HDL-c were significantly raised (15%, p < 0.001). Pravastatin lowered the total-c/HDL-c ratio by nearly 36% from a mean of 8.1 +/- 2.5 to a mean of 5.2 +/- 1.6. At the end 476 patients (66.6%) received the standard dosage of 10 mg/day whereas 140 patients (19.6%) were recorded to take a dose of 20 mg/day. When comparing those patients (n = 456) having maintained consistently a dose of 10 mg pravastatin per day from week 0 to week 12 with patients (n = 113) who received 20 mg/day from week 4 to 12 similar efficacy was observed in both groups (reduction of total-c: 24.5% vs. 22.2%, n.s., reduction of LDL-c: 33.0% vs. 30.0%, n.s.).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7856526
We evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial of 45 well-defined patients with familial combined hyperlipidemia, the effect of gemfibrozil (1,200 mg/day) or simvastatin (20 mg/day) on apolipoprotein-B (apo-B)-containing lipoproteins, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) subfraction profile, and LDL oxidizability. Although both drugs reduced plasma cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations, gemfibrozil reduced plasma triglycerides more effectively and simvastatin reduced plasma cholesterol more effectively. LDL cholesterol was reduced with simvastatin. With both drugs, total serum apo-B concentration decreased. With gemfibrozil, this was due to an exclusive reduction (-46%) of very low/intermediate-density lipoprotein (VLDL + IDL) apo-B, whereas simvastatin decreased apo-B in both VLDL + IDL and LDL (34% and 15%, respectively). Initially, a dense LDL subfraction profile was present in all patients. The decrease in LDL cholesterol with simvastatin was due to a decrease in all isolated LDL subfractions except LDL2; gemfibrozil increased LDL1 and LDL2 cholesterol (p = 0.001) and reduced LDL4 cholesterol, resulting in a more buoyant LDL subfraction profile compared with simvastatin. In both groups, a predominance of small dense LDL remained despite therapy. LDL fatty acid composition showed a shift from oleic acid to linoleic acid after gemfibrozil; arachidonic acid increased after simvastatin. Vitamin E was lower after gemfibrozil. In the measurements of LDL oxidation, only the oxidation rate was significantly reduced with simvastatin. Thus, quantitative and qualitative changes of LDL cholesterol had only a small effect on total in vitro LDL oxidizability in this population with familial combined hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7856612
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7857367
Twelve men and thirteen women with hypercholesterolaemia participated in a 20-week controlled cross-over trial to assess the interaction between dietary fat intake, gender and an HMGCoA reductase inhibitor, simvastatin. Subjects were matched for total cholesterol, age, body mass index (BMI) and plasma triglyceride. Gender-drug interactions were noted with men demonstrating only a 27% fall in LDL cholesterol with simvastatin when consuming a high fat (40% energy) diet compared to women with a 35% fall. In men, the lowest LDL/HDL ratio was achieved with simvastatin on a low fat diet (22% energy). Gender differences in the effect of simvastatin on HDL were confined to HDL3 cholesterol, although the drug raised HDL2 in both sexes on the low fat diet. Simvastatin was responsible for an 11% increase in HDL3 cholesterol in men particularly when on a low fat diet but did not affect HDL3 in women. An important diet-drug interaction was seen in triglyceride response, with a lowering of 17%-20% only when subjects were on a low fat diet. There was a gender difference in response to dietary fat change with men demonstrating a 19% decrease in triglycerides with dietary fat reduction while on simvastatin, whereas women showed a 9% increase which did not reach significance. Men also responded more favourably to dietary fat reduction with at least two-fold greater falls in plasma cholesterol than was seen in women.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7858908
Increased levels of IDL and small, dense LDL are associated with the risk of coronary artery disease. Possible mechanisms include increased susceptibility of small, dense LDL to oxidation, and to other pathologic effects, such as increased retention in the arterial wall. Beneficial effects of a low-fat diet and certain lipid-lowering therapies on the levels and properties of small, dense LDL or their precursors may contribute substantially to the reductions in coronary atherosclerosis observed in several lipid-lowering trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7859227
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7859238
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term efficacy and tolerability of pravastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, in elderly patients with hypercholesterolemia. Pravastatin was administered for 12 months at a mean final dose of 9.9 mg/d to 208 elderly patients (mean [+/- SD] age, 70 +/- 7 years) with levels of total serum cholesterol greater than 5.69 mmol/L. The mean total cholesterol level was significantly decreased from 6.85 +/- 0.80 mmol/L to 5.59 +/- 0.70 mmol/L after 3 months, and this decrease was maintained thereafter. A similar change was observed in the mean serum level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Although the mean serum level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in all the patients did not change significantly, the level in 34 patients with a value lower than 1.03 mmol/L was significantly increased after 3 months and thereafter. The serum level of triglycerides in all patients was significantly decreased after 3 months and thereafter and the decrease was more marked in 101 patients with levels greater than 1.73 mmol/L. In 168 elderly patients receiving 10 mg/d of pravastatin, there were significant negative correlations between the percent decrease in total cholesterol and both baseline total serum cholesterol level (r = -.354, P < 0.001) and age (r = -.208, P = 0.007). No serious side effects were observed. These results indicate that long-term administration of pravastatin is beneficial in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in elderly patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7859242
Hyperlipidemias, and notably hypercholesterolemia, represent important risk factors for atherosclerotic vascular disease. The enzymatic inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, a selective and specific key enzyme involved in endogenous cholesterol synthesis, cause a significant mean reduction in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, both in familial and nonfamilial hypercholesterolemic forms. It has been hypothesized that these compounds might interfere with vitamin D endogenous synthesis secondarily to their effects on cholesterol. To verify this hypothesis, we studied 14 hypercholesterolemic patients treated as follows: 4 weeks of low-lipid, fiber-rich diet followed by 8 weeks of pravastatin treatment at the oral evening dose of 20 mg/d and by a 1-month washout period. No significant changes in serum calcium, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D were noticed; on the contrary, significant (P < 0.01) reductions in total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol and a significant (P < 0.05) increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were observed. After the final 1-month washout period, all values returned to baseline levels. In conclusion, our study confirms the clinical efficacy of pravastatin on lipid fractions and demonstrates the absence of any interference on the circulating levels of the main vitamin D metabolites.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7859805
Serum cholesterol values were insufficiently reduced by pravastatin in two different patient populations. Therefore, we studied whether further cholesterol reduction could be achieved by inhibiting both cholesterol synthesis (by pravastatin) and absorption (by neomycin or sitostanol ester). Thus, we measured serum cholesterol, cholesterol precursors (reflecting cholesterol synthesis), cholestanol and plant sterols (reflecting cholesterol absorption and biliary secretion) for up to 6 weeks in pravastatin-treated patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH, n = 13) and with and without ileal bypass during addition of neomycin (1.5 g per day) and in another patient population of non-FH (n = 14) subjects during addition of sitostanol ester (1.5 g per day). Addition of neomycin lowered serum total, LDL and HDL cholesterol by a further 20%, and increased the pravastatin-lowered precursor:cholesterol ratios by 20% (irrespective of ileal bypass). It also reduced by 20% the plant sterol:cholesterol ratio (irrespective of ileal bypass) which was markedly increased by pravastatin alone. Pravastatin and neomycin in combination lowered total, LDL and HDL cholesterol by 45%, 53% and 17%, respectively. This combined regimen reduced the serum lathosterol:cholesterol ratio to about half of the reduction caused by pravastatin, while the elevation of the plant sterols:cholesterol ratio was less with the combination than with pravastatin alone. Changes in serum cholesterol precursor:cholesterol and plant sterol:cholesterol ratios during the combined treatment were smaller in the subgroup with ileal bypass. Addition of sitostanol ester did not lower serum total or LDL cholesterol nor the precursor:cholesterol ratios significantly, while the reduction observed in the plant sterols:cholesterol ratios was similar to that achieved with neomycin addition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7863988
We randomized 151 coronary patients to placebo or pravastatin and treated them for 3 years. B-mode ultrasound quantification of carotid artery intimal-medial thickness (IMT) was obtained at baseline and sequentially during this period. The primary outcome was the change in the mean of the maximal IMT measurements across time. Effects on individual carotid artery segments (common, bifurcation, and internal carotid) and on clinical events were also investigated. Plasma concentrations of total cholesterol were lower with active treatment than with placebo (4.80 vs 6.07 mmol/L [186 vs 235 mg/dl], respectively) as were concentrations of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (3.11 vs 4.30 mmol/L [120 vs 167 mg/dl], respectively). Plasma concentrations of high-density lipoprotein2 cholesterol were higher with active treatment (0.16 vs 0.14 mmol/L [6.1 vs 5.5 mg/dl], respectively). Active treatment resulted in a nonsignificant 12% reduction in progression of the mean-maximum IMT (from 0.068 to 0.059 mm/year) and a statistically significant 35% reduction in IMT progression in the common carotid. Active treatment was also associated with a reduction in fatal and nonfatal coronary events [corrected] (p = 0.09) and of any fatal event plus nonfatal myocardial infarction (p = 0.04).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7864934
It has yet to be established whether substantial reduction of plasma lipids will lead to retardation, and to what extent and how quickly, of diffuse and focal coronary atheroma. The Multicentre Anti-Atheroma Study (MAAS) is a randomised double-blind clinical trial of 381 patients with coronary heart disease assigned to treatment with diet and either simvastatin 20 mg daily or placebo for 4 years. Patients on simvastatin had a 23% reduction in serum cholesterol, a 31% reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and a 9% increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol compared with placebo over 4 years. Quantitative coronary angiography was done at baseline, and after 2 and 4 years. 167 patients (89%) on placebo and 178 (92%) on simvastatin had baseline and follow-up angiograms. In the placebo group there were reductions in mean lumen diameter (-0.08 mm) and in minimum lumen diameter (-0.13 mm). Treatment effects were +0.06 (95% CI 0.02 to 0.10) and +0.08 mm (0.03 to 0.14) for mean and minimum lumen diameter, respectively (combined p = 0.006). Patients on placebo had an increase in mean diameter stenosis of 3.6% and the treatment effect of simvastatin was -2.6% (-4.4 to -0.8). Treatment effects were observed regardless of diameter stenosis at baseline. On a per-patient basis, angiographic progression occurred less often in the simvastatin group, 41 versus 54 patients; and regression was more frequent, 33 versus 20 patients (combined p = 0.02). Significantly more new lesions and new total occlusions developed in the placebo group, 48 versus 28, and 18 versus 8, respectively. There was no difference in clinical outcome. The numbers of patients who died or had a myocardial infarction were 16 and 14 in the placebo and simvastatin groups, respectively. In the placebo group more patients underwent coronary angioplasty or re-vascularisation, 34 versus 23 on simvastatin. The trial showed that 20 mg simvastatin daily over 4 years reduces hyperlipidaemia and slows progression of diffuse and focal coronary atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7868973
To determine the acute and long-term effects of low density lipoprotein (LDL) reduction on cholesterol biosynthesis, we studied changes in the cholesterol precursors mevalonic acid (MVA) and lathosterol in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia undergoing LDL-apheresis. Long-term LDL-apheresis in eight patients resulted in slight but insignificant increases in plasma MVA levels and lathosterol/cholesterol (L/C) ratios over 18 months. In short-term studies, six patients not on drugs and six patients treated with lovastatin or pravastatin had blood taken immediately before and after LDL-apheresis, and afterwards on days 1, 2, 3, 5, and 7. Plasma L/C ratios and MVA concentration did not change significantly on the first day after LDL-apheresis in those not on statin therapy (1.11 +/- 0.08 vs. 1.40 +/- 0.18, and 9.2 +/- 1.3 vs. 9.1 +/- 0.6 ng/ml, respectively) but increased in the statin-treated group (from 0.78 +/- 0.09 to 1.55 +/- 0.21, P = 0.003 and from 5.0 +/- 0.7 to 11.0 +/- 1.6 ng/ml, P = 0.008, respectively). There was no clear correlation between the changes in either of these precursors and the extent of reduction of total cholesterol by LDL-apheresis, but there was a strong inverse correlation with the post-apheresis LDL-cholesterol level (r = -0.77, P = 0.002 for L/C ratio; r = -0.75, P = 0.003 for MVA). Post-apheresis changes in L/C ratio and MVA were mutually correlated (r = 0.68. P = 0.01). We conclude that LDL-apheresis stimulates cholesterol biosynthesis transiently despite concomitant therapy with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, the degree of stimulation being inversely related to the level to which the LDL-cholesterol was reduced.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7871179
Cost-effectiveness analyses were reviewed in the following diagnostic and treatment categories: acute myocardial infarction (MI) and diagnostic strategies for coronary artery disease (CAD), coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), congestive heart failure (CHF), and arrhythmias. In the case of acute MI, coronary care units, as presently used, are rather expensive but could be made much more efficient with more effective triage and resource utilization; reperfusion via thrombolysis is cost-effective, as are beta-blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors post-MI in appropriate patients. Cost-effectiveness of CAD screening tests depends strongly on the prevalence of disease in the population studied. Cost-effectiveness of CABG surgery depends on targeting; eg, it is highly effective for such conditions as left-main and three-vessel disease but not for lesser disease. PTCA appears to be cost-effective in situations where there is clinical consensus for its use, eg, severe ischemia and one-vessel disease, but requires further analysis based on randomized data; coronary stents also appear to be cost-effective. In preliminary analysis, ACE inhibition for CHF dominates, ie, saves both money and lives. Cardiac transplant appears to be cost-effective but requires further study. For arrhythmias, implantable cardioverter defibrillators are cost-effective, especially the transvenous device, in life-threatening situations; radiofrequency ablation is also cost-effective in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome apart from asymptomatic individuals; and pacemakers have not been analyzed except in the case of biofascicular block, where results were variable depending on the situation and preceding tests.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7871285
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7873090
The available antihyperlipidaemic drugs are generally safe and effective, and major systemic adverse effects are uncommon. However, because of their complex mechanisms of action, careful monitoring is required to identify and correct potential drug interactions. Bile acid sequestrants are the most difficult of these agents to administer concomitantly, because their nonspecific binding results in decreased bioavailability of a number of other drugs, including thiazide diuretics, digitalis preparations, beta-blockers, coumarin anticoagulants, thyroid hormones, fibric acid derivatives and certain oral antihyperglycaemia agents. Although the incidence is low, nicotinic acid may cause hepatic necrosis and so should not be used with drugs that adversely affect hepatic structure or function. With the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, relatively new agents for which clinical data are still being accumulated, the major problems appears to be rhabdomyolysis, associated with the concomitant use of cyclosporin, fibric acid derivatives or erythromycin, and mild, intermittent hepatic abnormalities that may be potentiated by other hepatotoxic drugs. Fibrates also have the potential to cause rhabdomyolysis, although generally only in combination with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, and are subject to binding by concomitantly administered bile acid sequestrants. The major interaction involving probucol is a possible additive effect with drugs or clinical conditions that alter the prolongation of the QTc interval, increasing the potential for polymorphic ventricular tachycardia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7875191
Twenty two healthy males participated in a randomised, placebo-controlled, double blind, cross-over study to investigate the influence of simvastatin on the pharmacokinetics of ramipril and its active metabolite (ramiprilat), and on the ACE-inhibiting effect of ramiprilat. During two study periods, each of 7 days, subjects received daily either simvastatin 20 mg at 19.00 h or placebo; ramipril (5 mg) was given on Day 5 of each of the periods. Plasma concentrations of ramipril and ramiprilat and ACE-activity were measured in sequential blood specimens, and ramipril and ramiprilat concentrations were measured in urine. Blood and urine collections for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic assessment were made up to 72 h after the dose of ramipril. The mean AUC of ramipril for ramipril+placebo (R+P) and ramipril+simvastatin (R+S) was 22.2 and 21.3 ng.h.ml-1, respectively; for ramiprilat the corresponding figures were 61.3 and 57.6 ng.h.ml-1. The urinary excretion of ramipril+metabolites for (R+P) and (R+S) was 25.2 and 24.1% of dose. The maximum percentage inhibition of ACE-activity for (R+P) was 94.6%, and for (R+S) it was 94.1%. It is concluded that concomitant administration of simvastatin and ramipril has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics or ACE-inhibition of the latter drug and its metabolites.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7875999
"Is there any safe and optimal treatment of hyperlipidemia following heart transplantation?" The problem of hypercholesterolemia following heart transplantation if often underestimated. Up to now there is no concept of therapy allowing an optimal adjustment of lipid parameters. Therapeutical trials using ion exchange resins, derivatives of nicotinic acids and fibrates were not successful due to cyclosporine A interaction, hepatotoxicity and limited efficacy of the applied substances. In a prospective, randomized and controlled trial we investigated the effects of the HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitor simvastatin in heart transplant recipients. The study included 70 patients (simvastatin n = 37, control group n = 33). 8 patients died within the first three months following heart transplantation. Purpose of the study was the adjustment of the LDL-cholesterol values in the simvastatin treated group to < or = 110 mg/dl. Following 24 months of treatment a mean LDL-cholesterol plasma level of 110 mg/dl was obtained. The corresponding mean value of the control group was 150 mg/dl. The difference between both groups was significant (p < 0.001). In the same period the mean HDL-cholesterol values increased by approx. 15% in both groups (no significant difference [p > 0.05]). The ratio of LDL/HDL-cholesterol was significant lower in the simvastatin treated group (2.28) than in the control group (2.94) (p < 0.05). There was no significant difference in Lp(a) values. No adverse side effects were observed within the observation period of 24 months, particularly no increase in the frequency of rejection episodes. Summarizing the above, we recommend low-dose simvastatin therapy as a safe and optimal treatment of hypercholesterolemia following heart transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7877544
To determine the efficacy of pravastatin in the treatment of primary hypercholesterolaemia in patients being treated with captopril for hypertension.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7879252
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7882060
The aim of our study was the biochemical and functional examination of the liver during the therapy of familiar hyperlipoproteinemia by means of MevacorR (lovostatine) in comparison with the treatment by Vasosan S (cholestyramine). We examined 20 patients treated with a daily dose of MevacorR being 20-40 mg and, 18 patients treated with a daily dose of Vasosan S being 16-32 g for the period of 12 weeks. During the therapy the total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, triacylglycerols, hepatic enzymes (AST, ALT, ALP) activity, functional test of the liver, biological half-time of antipyrine (t 1/2 antipyrine) were investigated at the onset and at the end of the study. We discovered that at the end of the treatments by MevacorR and Vasosan S the hypolipidemic effect increased (cholesterol p < 0.001, LDL cholesterol p < 0.001), and there was difference in the effect on HDL-cholesterol and in that on triacylglycerols. During the treatment we discovered that due to both medicaments the liver enzymes activity increased to a different extent. At the beginning of the study the antipyrine biological half-time statistically increased in both investigated groups, namely in comparison with the control group. At the end of the treatments in both groups the antipyrine half-time was prolonged, however not significantly. Prior to long-term therapy by hypolipidemics the authors recommend biochemical and functional examination of the liver. (Tab. 4, Fig. 8, Ref. 7.)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7883839
Plasma lipoproteins are a major source of cholesterol for steroid hormone synthesis. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme-A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, which reduce both intracellular cholesterol synthesis and serum cholesterol levels, thus have a potential negative impact on steroidogenesis. In this study, we evaluated basal and maximally stimulated adrenocortical and testicular steroidogenesis in 24 hypercholesterolemic male subjects during 6-36 months of statin treatment. One group was evaluated before treatment and after 6 months of treatment. A second group, which received long term treatment, was evaluated after 24-36 months and then 2 months after treatment had been discontinued. Fourteen subjects were given simvastatin, and 12 were given pravastatin, both at the maximum therapeutic dosage of 40 mg/day. During statin therapy, serum cholesterol was lowered by about 30%. Basal serum and urinary cortisol levels as well as serum cortisol response to ACTH were not influenced by statin therapy. Basal serum testosterone and its response to hCG were also unchanged by statin treatment. In addition, steroid hormone urinary metabolites were strikingly similar when patients were given HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and when they were not. These results indicate that maximum therapeutic doses of statins have no negative impact on adrenocortical and testicular steroidogenesis even when these glands are maximally stimulated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7885109
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7885110
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7886707
This report compares stroke incidence, case fatality, and mortality rates during the first years of the WHO MONICA Project in 16 European and 2 Asian populations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7886711
This study was done to assess the relationship between prevalent cardiovascular disease and arterial wall thickness in middle-aged US adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7887382
This study was conducted to examine the effects of short-term cholesterol reduction on cardiovascular reactivity in mildly hypertensive patients. Seven male and 7 female patients, aged 34 to 68 years, received pravastatin (40 mg/day) or matched placebo for 3 weeks in a randomized, double-blind, crossover study. Cardiovascular reactivity was assessed by measurement of blood pressure (BP) responses to incremental infusions of angiotensin II and norepinephrine, by cold pressor testing and isometric exercise. Compared with placebo, pravastatin caused significant reductions in plasma total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, which averaged 20% and 31%, respectively (both p < 0.0001), and in diastolic BP responses (expressed as the infusion rate required to raise BP by 20 mm Hg) to both angiotensin II (7.3 +/- 3.0 vs 9.7 +/- 4.7 ng/kg/min, p = 0.05) and norepinephrine (0.15 +/- 0.13 vs 0.38 +/- 0.33 micrograms/kg/min, p = 0.03). Systolic BP responses were similar with both treatments. Body weight, resting BP, and maximal BP responses to physical stressors were similar with each treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7887403
Our results suggest that bezafibrate may be useful in the treatment of high Lp(a) levels in heart transplant patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7888259
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7888289
1. Pravastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme-A (HMG-CoA) inhibitor, is a highly selective inhibitor of hepatic cholesterol synthesis. We studied the in vivo and in vitro effects of pravastatin on macrophage cholesterol metabolism. 2. The effects of incubating pravastatin with human monocyte derived macrophages (HMDM), mouse peritoneal macrophages (MPM) and a J-774 A.1 macrophage-like cell line, on macrophage cholesterol synthesis, cellular degradation of native low density lipoprotein (LDL) and modified LDL, cholesterol efflux from these cells and the cholesterol esterification rate were determined. 3. Pravastatin was administered either as one 40 mg dose or 40 mg daily for 8 weeks to normocholesterolaemic and hypercholesterolaemic individuals. The effects on cholesterol synthesis and degradation in monocytes derived from these subjects were studied. 4. In vitro, pravastatin resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of macrophage cholesterol synthesis. Cellular degradation of native LDL increased by 119% in the presence of 0.1 mg ml-1 pravastatin. Degradation of both acetyl LDL and oxidized LDL was unaffected. Small concentrations of pravastatin (up to 0.19 micrograms ml-1) increased the cellular cholesterol esterification rate after incubation with LDL, but higher concentrations resulted in an inhibition of the esterification. 5. Single dose pravastatin administration caused a reduction in cholesterol synthesis by the subjects own HMDM by 62% and 47% in normocholesterolaemic and hypercholesterolaemic individuals, respectively. Chronic administration resulted in a 55% inhibition of cholesterol synthesis and a 57% increase in LDL degradation. 6. The results indicate that the selective uptake of pravastatin shown for hepatocytes can be extended to macrophages.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7890014
This study investigates the hypothesis that lipid soluble antioxidants may increase the resistance of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) to oxidation and also enhance vascular endothelial responses in humans. In a double-blind parallel group study, 24 hypercholesterolaemic patients already on treatment with simvastatin (20 mg day-1), were randomized to supplementary treatment with probucol (500 mg bd), vitamin E (400 IU daily) or placebo for 8 weeks. Mean serum cholesterol before antioxidant treatment was 7.00 mmol l-1. Resistance of LDL to oxidation by copper was increased by 830% in the probucol group and by 30% in the vitamin E group. However, thiobarbituric acid reacting substances in whole serum were not altered by either antioxidant. Probucol lowered HDL- and LDL-cholesterol levels and increased the QT interval. Forearm vascular responses, as measured by venous occlusion plethysmography, to acetylcholine, glyceryl trinitrate and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, were not significantly changed by antioxidant treatment. Probucol has a major, and vitamin E a minor, effect on LDL resistance to oxidation but neither compound appears to alter forearm vascular responses in vivo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7890015
Restenosis remains the largest single obstacle to the long-term success of invasive vascular interventions. Lovastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, has been shown to reduce myointimal hyperplasia in animal models of restenosis and in one clinical coronary restenosis trial. We have assessed the effect of lovastatin on the growth of cultured human vascular smooth muscle cells derived from saphenous vein and vascular graft stenoses. Lovastatin (2 microM) inhibited proliferation over 14 days in saphenous vein (and graft stenoses) derived vascular smooth muscle cells by 42% and 32% respectively: this was not significantly different. Lovastatin (10 microM) reduced [methyl 3H]-thymidine uptake by 51% in saphenous vein-derived cells. These concentrations were significantly higher than those achieved in plasma during therapeutic dosage. Lovastatin-induced inhibition of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and [methyl 3H]-thymidine uptake was completely reversed by adding mevalonate (100 microM) but cholesterol (10-40 micrograms ml-1) had no effect. Isopentenyl adenine (25-50 microM) did not affect the inhibition of [methyl 3H]-thymidine uptake by lovastatin (10 microM), but farnesol (20 microM), another isoprenoid precursor of cholesterol synthesis, reversed the antiproliferative effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7898078
In an 8-week, placebo-controlled multicenter study, the efficacy of dose levels of simvastatin 2.5, 5, 10, 20, and 40 mg was evaluated in 166 patients with hypercholesterolemia, of whom 163 completed the trial. The entry criteria were serum total cholesterol (TCHOL) between 6.2 and 7.8 mM and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol between 4.3 and 50 mM on a standard diet and after the 2-week run-in period of placebo treatment. Mean percentage changes in serum lipids in each simvastatin-treated group from baseline were statistically significant. Of treated patients, 0% (placebo), 11% (2.5 mg), 7% (5 mg), 33% (10 mg), 42% (20 mg) and 55% (40 mg) had at least 40% reduction from baseline LDL cholesterol value. After 8 weeks of treatment, 0% (placebo), 11% (2.5 mg), 25% (5 mg), 26% (10 mg), 31% (20 mg), and 55% (40 mg) of patients treated reached a TCHOL level of < or = 5.2 mM. There was a significant linear dose response with regard to the decrease in LDL cholesterol, TCHOL, and triglycerides (TG) and the increase in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol after 8 weeks of therapy. No serious clinical or laboratory adverse events related to simvastatin were observed even at higher doses. At each dose level, simvastatin reduced TCHOL and LDL cholesterol. Doses of simvastatin > or = 5 mg moderately increased HDL cholesterol and reduced serum TG. Simvastatin therapy resulted in major improvement in serum lipoprotein profile, particularly at higher doses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7898227
Low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis has the theoretical advantage over anion-exchange resins and hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A inhibitors of decreasing lipoprotein(a) as well as LDL. To confirm this advantage, patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia and coronary artery disease were randomised to receive LDL apheresis fortnightly (with disposable dextran sulphate/cellulose columns) plus simvastatin 40 mg daily, or colestipol 20 g plus simvastatin 40 mg daily. Quantitative coronary angiography was repeated after a mean of 2.1 years in 20 patients undergoing apheresis and in 19 on combination drug therapy. Changes in serum lipoproteins were similar in both groups apart from greater lowering by apheresis of LDL cholesterol (3.2 vs 3.4 mmol/L in drug group, p = 0.03) and lipoprotein(a) (geometric means 14 vs 21 mg/dL, p = 0.03). There were no significant differences in primary angiographic endpoints per patient but lesion-based and segment-based secondary endpoints were biased in favour of the drug group (change in minimum lumen diameter of lesions 0.07 vs -0.004 mm, p = 0.046; change in mean lumen diameter of segments 0.02 vs -0.06 mm, p = 0.01). None of the angiographic changes correlated with lipoprotein(a) concentrations. Per patient changes in % diameter stenosis and minimum lumen diameter in the two groups were as or more favourable than those observed in five published trials that assessed lipid-lowering drug therapy by quantitative coronary angiography. Although LDL apheresis combined with simvastatin was more effective than colestipol plus simvastatin in reducing LDL cholesterol and lipoprotein(a), it was less beneficial in influencing coronary atherosclerosis and should be reserved for patients unresponsive to drugs. Decreasing lipoprotein(a) seems to be unnecessary if LDL cholesterol is reduced to 3.4 mmol/L or less.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7900667
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7902394
Expression of ras has been correlated with increased intrinsic resistance to ionizing radiation. In this study we show that increased EJras expression in human cells is associated with a decrease in the frequency of radiation-induced micronuclei. The experimental system consisted of human osteosarcoma-derived cell lines which quantitatively vary in their EJras expression. There was a dose-dependent relationship between radiation dose and micronuclei formation in all cell lines tested. Human osteosarcoma cells, in which the ras level was undetectable, had the highest frequency of micronuclei production at all radiation doses tested. At 4 Gy the most radioresistant cells exhibited a 41.5 +/- 5% decrease in the production of micronuclei concomitant with high ras expression in comparison with the relatively radiosensitive parental cell line. Cells expressing a low amount of EJras demonstrated a 23 +/- 3% decrease in micronuclei induction compared with parental cells. Treatment of cells with lovastatin, an inhibitor of ras-encoded p21ras post-translational processing via the mevalonate pathway, markedly decreased the yield of micronuclei formation in cells transfected with ras; the drug had no effect on radiation-induced micronuclei formation in parental cells. The use of the in vitro micronuclei assay has provided a convenient way to visualize differences in the genotoxic damage induced by ionizing radiation in cells which express different amount of EJras. The results indicate that elevation of ras expression in human cells can lead to a decrease in the number of radiation-induced micronuclei formed and that this relationship is dependent on membrane association of ras-encoded p21.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7911877
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7915369
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7917813
A 1-year prospective study was conducted in 475 hypercholesterolaemic men and women who received simvastatin monotherapy 10-40 mg daily for 3 months followed by additional lipid-lowering medication after this period, if necessary, to reach a target of plasma cholesterol < 5.3 mmol/l. Of these, 403 subjects completed 1 year of follow-up. By the end of the 3-month monotherapy period, the following percentage mean changes were seen (with 95% confidence intervals): total cholesterol (TC) -31% (-30 to -32%), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol -39% (-38 to -40%), triglycerides -14% (-11 to -17%) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol +12% (+11 to +14%). These levels were maintained for the remainder of the study. When subjects with a baseline TC of 6.5-7.8 mmol/l were considered (n = 89), 42.7% achieved the target TC levels on simvastatin monotherapy alone. Additional hypolipidaemic medication had no significant impact on plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels. Simvastatin was well tolerated both as monotherapy and in combination.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7923304
Four drugs that act as specific inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase--lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin, and, most recently, fluvastatin--have been approved by regulatory authorities throughout the world. In the present review, we have critically assessed the comparative hypocholesterolemic effects of these four drugs based on direct comparative studies, which were randomized, double-blind, and included more than 25 patients per treatment group. All studies were conducted in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and the major end point of efficacy was reduction in the plasma concentrations of low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol. Eight comparative trials have evaluated the efficacy and safety of lovastatin, simvastatin, or pravastatin, and one recently completed trial has compared lovastatin and fluvastatin. These trials confirm the log-linear dose response curves for all four of these drugs but indicate that on a milligram-for-milligram basis, lovastatin and pravastatin are approximately equipotent, whereas simvastatin is at least twice as effective per milligram of drug administered as lovastatin and pravastatin. Lovastatin at doses of 20 and 40 mg/d was of similar efficacy to fluvastatin at doses of 40 and 80 mg/d and would suggest that on a milligram-for-milligram basis, fluvastatin is half as potent as lovastatin. The side-effect profiles of all four drugs appeared similar, and earlier reports that suggested a higher incidence of sleep disorders in patients treated with the more lipophilic drugs, lovastatin and simvastatin, as compared with pravastatin, are not supported by more recent, controlled clinical trials. We conclude that although the currently available HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors differ in their relative hypolipidemic effects, as a class they constitute the most effective agents available to maximally reduce elevated concentrations of LDL-cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7925476
Recombinant c-Ha-ras, ralA and rap2, but not rap1A or rap1B proteins retained their ability to bind [alpha-32P]GTP after SDS/PAGE and transfer to nitrocellulose. Recombinant c-Has-ras missing the C-terminal 23 amino acid residues failed to bind [alpha-32P]GTP after the blot, and the ability of recombinant ralA missing the C-terminal 28 amino acid residues to bind [alpha-32P]GTP was decreased many-fold. The presence of nonionic detergents of the polyoxyethylene type such as Tween 20, Triton X-100, Nonidet P40 or Lubrol PX in the incubation buffer was necessary to induce renaturation of blotted recombinant c-Ha-ras protein, whereas other types of detergents were ineffective. We propose that detergents of the polyoxyethylene type induce the refolding of some types of blotted small GTP-binding proteins and that the C-terminus is involved in the refolding process. Membranes from NIH3T3 fibroblasts overexpressing c-Ha-ras protein showed much weaker binding of [alpha-32P]GTP as expected from the level of ras immunoreactivity. Treatment of fibroblasts with lovastatin, an inhibitor of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, caused the accumulation of the unfarnesylated form of c-Ha-ras in the cytosol. Examination of [alpha-32P]GTP-binding and immunoreactivity for cytosolic and membrane-bound c-Ha-ras revealed that binding of [alpha-32P]GTP to unprocessed c-Ha-ras was increased about threefold compared to the same amount of processed c-Ha-ras. Our results demonstrate that detection and quantification of small GTP-binding proteins in eukaryotic cells by GTP-blot analysis is hampered by the fact that these proteins differ strongly in their ability to renature after blotting to nitrocellulose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7926550
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7930373
Simvastatin is an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the key enzyme in the synthesis of cholesterol, recently introduced in the therapy of hypercholesterolemic patients. Cholesterol is the precursor of the biosynthesis of steroid hormones; thus, a reduction of the availability of cholesterol in the adrenal and testicular cells may reduce the synthesis of corticosteroids and androgens. To establish whether chronic therapy with simvastatin interferes with the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and with the adrenal and testicular reserve, we administered simvastatin orally in a single-day 10 mg dose for 6 months in 8 mildly hypercholesterolemic male patients. At weeks 0, 6 and 24 of treatment we evaluated the lipids, the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis by means of the Corticotropin-Releasing Hormone (CRH) test, the adrenal reserve by means of the Corticotropin rapid test and, finally, the testicular reserve by means of the Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (HCG) test. Total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol were significantly reduced by Simvastatin, while the HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides did not change significantly. The hormonal responses to CRH, ACTH and HCG tests at weeks 6 and 24 of treatment were comparable to those obtained in basal conditions. We conclude that Simvastatin, while effective in reducing total and LDL-cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic male patients, did not interfere with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity or with basal and stimulated adrenal and testicular steroidogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7932517
This double-blind, placebo-controlled, six month trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of pravastatin in hypercholesterolaemic, hypertensive patients on antihypertensive treatment, who on a standard lipid-lowering diet maintained a plasma total cholesterol level of at least 250 mg%. Fifty hypertensive patients were randomised to placebo or pravastatin treatment. Once daily dosing consisted of 10 mg pravastatin during the first month, 20 mg during the second month and 40 mg during an additional 4 months or matching placebos. Compared with placebo, pravastatin reduced (P < 0.001) the plasma level of total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and phospholipids during the six month study period whereas plasma HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides did not change significantly. These changes in plasma lipids were independent of age and of the nature of the concomitant antihypertensive treatment. No serious side-effects were observed and pravastatin was generally well tolerated. In conclusion, pravastatin 10-40 mg once daily reduced plasma total and LDL-cholesterol in hypercholesterolaemic, hypertensive patients, independent of age and concurrent antihypertensive drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7935702
Experimental and clinical observations suggest that lowering serum lipid levels may reduce the risk of restenosis after coronary angioplasty. We report the results of a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial evaluating whether lowering lipid levels with lovastatin can prevent or delay restenosis after angioplasty.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7937416
Foot ulcers are a weighty complication of diabetes whose significance is often underestimated. They are associated with a high degree of morbidity and mortality, and treatment is laborious and costly. The problem of susceptibility to foot ulceration is best addressed through a prevention program emphasizing patient education, pedal hygiene, regular follow-up visits, and lifestyle modification. Such programs are most efficiently administered by a healthcare team. When ulcers do occur, it is important to take a systematic approach to management, stressing infection control, metabolic stabilization, thorough debridement, and meticulous wound care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7940820
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7940824
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7940825
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7942524
The Expanded Clinical Evaluation of Lovastatin study, a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and diet-controlled multicenter trial, evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of lovastatin over 48 weeks in 8,245 patients with moderately severe hypercholesterolemia. During year 1 of follow-up of the full cohort, lovastatin at 20 or 40 mg/day, or 20 or 40 mg twice daily, produced dose-dependent decreases in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (24% to 40%) and triglyceride levels (10% to 19%), and increases in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (6.6% to 9.5%). In all, 977 patients continued their original blinded treatment for an additional year. In year 2, the LDL cholesterol response to lovastatin was maintained, the triglyceride reductions were somewhat less, and the increases in HDL cholesterol were moderately greater than in year 1. Successive transaminase elevations > 3 times the upper limit of normal were observed in only 1 patient in year 2, yielding a cumulative 2-year incidence of from 0.1% (placebo or lovastatin 20 mg/day) to 1.9% (lovastatin 80 mg/day). Myopathy occurred in only 1 patient during year 2, and over the 2-year study was observed rarely and only at lovastatin dosages of 40 and 80 mg/day. This study indicates that lovastatin maintains its efficacy over long-term follow-up, particularly in effectively lowering LDL cholesterol, is generally well tolerated, and has a favorable safety profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7942538
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7942548
With the aim of assessing the effectiveness and safety of lovastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia after heart transplantation, as well as the potential differences in the lipid-lowering effect of lovastatin between patients with or without pretransplant coronary artery disease (CAD), we studied 63 heart transplant patients who had serum total cholesterol > 250 mg/dl in spite of dietary therapy. Mean age of subjects was 47 +/- 2 years. Triple-drug immunosuppressive therapy consisted of cyclosporine, azathioprine, and steroids. Thirty-nine patients (62%) had pretransplant CAD and 24 (38%) did not. Pretreatment serum lipid levels were: total cholesterol, 302 +/- 32 mg/dl; low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, 201 +/- 35 mg/dl; high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, 60 +/- 19 mg/dl; triglycerides, 205 +/- 86 mg/dl; and total/HDL cholesterol ratio, 5.4 +/- 1.6. Patients received 10 to 40 mg/day of lovastatin (mean dose 17 +/- 6) for 13 +/- 4 months. There were no serious adverse events. At 3 months, lovastatin decreased total cholesterol by 15% (p < 0.001), LDL cholesterol by 21% (p < 0.001), triglycerides by 17% (p < 0.05), and total/HDL cholesterol ratio by 17% (p < 0.001), and increased HDL cholesterol by 3% (NS). Although lovastatin was effective in both patients with pretransplant CAD and non-CAD, analysis of its effect in each subgroup (CAD and non-CAD) revealed that its lipid-lowering effect was higher for non-CAD patients (-20% vs -12% for total cholesterol, and -27% vs -17% for LDL cholesterol, both p < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7951551
Adrenal autotransplantation after bilateral total adrenalectomy has been utilized to eliminate the need for replacement therapy and to prevent the late occurrence of Nelson's syndrome in some patients with Cushing's disease. It is possible to follow these cases up closely today, owing to the highly developed hormonal evaluation and imaging techniques. In this study, two patients who underwent bilateral total adrenalectomy and cortex autotransplantation are presented. The autografts were found functional and the patients had not required any steroid replacement therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7952912
Several studies have shown that patients with coronary artery disease have an elevated plasma triglyceride response to a fat-rich meal. Recent evidence suggests that postprandial triglyceridemia is in fact an independent predictor of coronary and carotid atherosclerosis. In order to further characterize postprandial lipid metabolism, recently published studies have investigated the role of liver-derived lipoproteins in determining the magnitude of postprandial triglyceridemia, and have further defined the effect of glucose intolerance and lipid-lowering drugs on postprandial plasma lipoprotein parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7954413
Ninety potential chemopreventive agents were screened using 6 chemoprevention-associated biochemical end points. These compounds were tested using rodent (tracheal epithelial or liver) cells and human cells [neonatal foreskin fibroblasts, bronchial epithelial cells, or human leukemic cells (HL-60)]. The effects measured were: (a) inhibition of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced tyrosine kinase activity in HL-60 cells; (b) inhibition of TPA-induced ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity in rat tracheal epithelial cells; (c) inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase in propane sultone-treated primary human fibroblasts; (d) inhibition of benzo[a]pyrene(B[a]P)-DNA binding in human bronchial epithelial cells; (e) induction of reduced glutathione in Buffalo rat liver cells; and (f) inhibition of TPA-induced free radical formation in primary human fibroblasts or HL-60 cells. Fifty compounds were highly effective in inhibiting TPA-induced tyrosine kinase activity. This assay identified compounds from a wide variety of chemical classes as effective inhibitors, including all the vitamins, retinoic acid analogues, protein kinase C inhibitors, and chemicals belonging to the amino acid category. Fifty-two chemicals were classified as highly positive compounds when examined for their ability to inhibit TPA-induced ODC activity. These agents showed a dose-dependent inhibition or inhibition at all doses. Retinoids, in general, exhibited strong inhibition of ODC activity. A category of compounds showing dose-dependent inhibition were the sulfur compounds, especially the thiols and thiones. Among the natural products, terpenes were strong inhibitors of ODC. Forty-seven compounds were classified as strong inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase. In the carcinogen-DNA binding inhibition assay, 21 compounds were identified as strong inhibitors, which include phenolic compounds as well as sulfur compounds. Vitamins and their analogues were also good inhibitors. Testing for induced glutathione yielded 19 compounds that were good inducers. Sulfur-containing compounds and most of the phenolic compounds were also inducers of glutathione. Twenty compounds were highly positive for inhibition of TPA-induced free radical formation. A significant number of phenolic and sulfur compounds were again strong oxygen radical scavengers. Some antiinflammatory agents were also identified as free radical inhibitors. In general, retinoids were quite active in all the assays. Eight compounds were positive in all of the six assays; these were vitamin C (ascorbic acid), bismuththiol, esculetin, etoperidone, folic acid, hydrocortisone, indole-3-carbinol, and tocopherol succinate. Agents that were positive in these assays may inhibit the carcinogenesis process by similar mechanisms in humans and are identified as candidates for development as chemopreventive agents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7955780
The hypolipidaemic agent pravastatin differs from other US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (e.g. lovastatin and simvastatin) because it has greater hydrophilicity, as a result of the hydroxyl group attached to its decalin ring. The hydrophilic nature of pravastatin accounts for its minimal penetration into the intracellular space of nonhepatic tissues, including an apparent inability to cross the blood-brain barrier. The drug is also well tolerated because it is rapidly absorbed and excreted, and does not accumulate in plasma even with repeated administration. Pravastatin is taken up into the liver by an active transport carrier system, and the hepatic extraction ratio is high (0.66). The drug and its metabolites are cleared through both hepatic and renal routes (53 and 47%, respectively). The dual route of elimination reduces the need for dosage adjustment if the function of either of these organs is impaired. Dosage adjustments are also not required on the basis of age or gender. Furthermore, the drug can be given without regard to food intake, an important consideration for compliance since lipid-lowering therapy is generally required long term. The drug is approximately 50% protein bound, and, therefore, compared with other members of its class the tendency for displacement of highly protein bound drugs such as warfarin is decreased. This minimal potential for drug-drug interactions is important for patients who are taking multiple drugs because of concomitant medical problems. However, as with any HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, caution should be exercised when pravastatin is given with nicotinic acid (niacin), gemfibrozil or cyclosporin, because of increased risk for myopathy in patients receiving combination therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7957515
Serum ubiquinone levels were studied during long- and short-term treatment with 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors in 17 men with primary non-familial hypercholesterolaemia. The serum ubiquinone levels were determined after the patients had received simvastatin (20-40 mg per day) for 4.7 years, after a 4 week treatment pause and again after they had resumed treatment with lovastatin (20-40 mg per day) for 12 weeks. During the treatment pause the average serum ubiquinone levels increased by 32%; resumption of treatment caused a reduction of 25%. The changes in the levels of ubiquinone and serum total cholesterol as well as those of ubiquinone and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were closely parallel. This suggested that changes in serum ubiquinone reflected changes in cholesterol-containing serum lipoproteins which could serve as carrier vehicles for ubiquinone. After long-term simvastatin treatment and after short-term lovastatin treatment, average serum ubiquinone levels (1.16 and 1.22 mg.l-1, respectively) were similar to that observed in a group of apparently healthy middle-aged men (1.16 mg.l-1).

Abstract for pubmed ID 7957541
The aim of this study was to investigate the new synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, fluvastatin, for efficacy, safety and tolerability in comparison to cholestyramine. One hundred fifty one primary hypercholesterolaemic patients participated in this double-blind, parallel-group, randomized study. During the first 12 weeks of the study, fluvastatin (20 mg and 40 mg daily) was compared with cholestyramine (16 g per day). In the subsequent, 6-week part of the study, the comparative efficacy, safety and tolerability of 20 mg fluvastatin, combined with cholestyramine (4 g, 8 g, or 16 g) were assessed. Fluvastatin (40 mg) reduced LDL cholesterol by 28.0%, triglycerides by 10.5% and increased HDL cholesterol by 3.7%. Cholestyramine (16 g) reduced LDL cholesterol by 35.0%, but raised triglycerides and HDL cholesterol by 12.3% (p < 0.01) and 3.7% respectively. The combination of fluvastatin 20 mg and cholestyramine (4 g, 8 g and 16 g) induced the following reductions in LDL cholesterol: 30.4%, 35.6% and 46.6% respectively. There was no significant change in triglycerides in either group although HDL cholesterol was raised by 4.9%, 8.3% and 7.2% respectively. One patient treated with fluvastatin and two treated with cholestyramine were withdrawn from the study due to elevation of liver transaminases. The most frequent subjective adverse effects in both treatment groups were mild, transient gastrointestinal complaints. Thus, fluvastatin was effective as a lipid-lowering agent; the effect was further enhanced when fluvastatin was combined with cholestyramine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7964434
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7964545
During the last decade, several epidemiological studies have reliably demonstrated that plasma fibrinogen is a strong and independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease that is at least as important as more traditional risk factors for the disease. The deleterious effects of this protein seem to be mediated through its role in hemorrheology, hemostasis, and the atherogenic process itself. According to prospective epidemiological studies, the risk of developing a cardiovascular event such as ischemic heart disease or stroke is 1.8 to 4.1 times higher in subjects with fibrinogen levels in the top third than in those with levels in the lower third. Epidemiological studies, clinical trials, pathophysiology, and therapeutical possibilities are reviewed in this paper.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7964884
Treatments by oral administration of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) alone, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG) CoA reductase inhibitor (pravastatin) alone, and combination of the two drugs were attempted for 7 patients with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX). CDCA treatment at a dose of 300 mg/day reduced serum cholestanol (67.3% reduction), lathosterol (50.8%), campesterol (61.7%) and sitosterol (12.7%). However, the sera of the patients changed to be "atherogenic"; total cholesterol, triglyceride and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol were increased, while high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol was decreased. Contrarily, pravastatin at a dose of 10 mg/day improved the sera of the patients to be markedly "anti-atherogenic", but the reductions of cholestanol (30.4%), lathosterol (44.0%), campesterol (22.9%) and sitosterol (9.6%) were inadequate. Combined treatment with CDCA and pravastatin showed good overlapping of the effects of each drug alone. The sera of the patients were apparently more "anti-atherogenic" than those after CDCA treatment. Serum cholestanol concentration was still 2.7 times higher than in controls, but the serum lathosterol level was within the normal range, indicating that the enhancement of overall cholesterol synthesis in the patients was sufficiently suppressed. Plant sterol levels were also within the normal range. The combination of CDCA and pravastatin was a good treatment for CTX, based on the improvement of serum lipoprotein metabolism, the suppression of cholesterol synthesis, and reductions of cholestanol and plant sterol levels. In all of 7 patients, the progression of disease was arrested, but dramatic effects on clinical manifestations, xanthoma, and electrophysiological findings could not be found after the treatment of these drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7966875
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 7968073
Drug therapy for hypercholesterolaemia has remained controversial mainly because of insufficient clinical trial evidence for improved survival. The present trial was designed to evaluate the effect of cholesterol lowering with simvastatin on mortality and morbidity in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). 4444 patients with angina pectoris or previous myocardial infarction and serum cholesterol 5.5-8.0 mmol/L on a lipid-lowering diet were randomised to double-blind treatment with simvastatin or placebo. Over the 5.4 years median follow-up period, simvastatin produced mean changes in total cholesterol, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, and high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol of -25%, -35%, and +8%, respectively, with few adverse effects. 256 patients (12%) in the placebo group died, compared with 182 (8%) in the simvastatin group. The relative risk of death in the simvastatin group was 0.70 (95% CI 0.58-0.85, p = 0.0003). The 6-year probabilities of survival in the placebo and simvastatin groups were 87.6% and 91.3%, respectively. There were 189 coronary deaths in the placebo group and 111 in the simvastatin group (relative risk 0.58, 95% CI 0.46-0.73), while noncardiovascular causes accounted for 49 and 46 deaths, respectively. 622 patients (28%) in the placebo group and 431 (19%) in the simvastatin group had one or more major coronary events. The relative risk was 0.66 (95% CI 0.59-0.75, p < 0.00001), and the respective probabilities of escaping such events were 70.5% and 79.6%. This risk was also significantly reduced in subgroups consisting of women and patients of both sexes aged 60 or more. Other benefits of treatment included a 37% reduction (p < 0.00001) in the risk of undergoing myocardial revascularisation procedures. This study shows that long-term treatment with simvastatin is safe and improves survival in CHD patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7977011
Because the accumulation of lipids is central to the development and progression of coronary atherosclerosis, interventions (drugs, diet, or surgery) designed to reduce serum cholesterol levels have been tested in a large number of clinical trials, which began in the early 1960s. Data from such trials are now available on more than 45,000 participants, most of whom were men. Nevertheless, debate continues regarding the benefits of lipid-lowering therapy, to a large extent because of methodologic limitations that characterized most trials. Despite their limitations, however, the combined data from these trials demonstrate a reduction in incidence of coronary heart disease after a lag time of 2 or more years. This article reviews combined results of lipid-lowering trials based on published and nonpublished meta-analyses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7979841
Fluvastatin sodium is a new, entirely synthetic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor that may be an effective lipid-lowering agent in patients whose hyperlipidemia does not respond to dietary therapy. We conducted a study to evaluate the effects of fluvastatin on lipoprotein levels in subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia and to compare the efficacy and safety of two fluvastatin sodium dosing regimens: 20 mg once daily vs 10 mg twice daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7986302
In this preliminary report of a 20-week trial, 66 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and hyperlipidaemia who remained eligible after an 8-week dietary stabilization phase were randomly allocated to receive 20 mg of fluvastatin or placebo once daily for 6 weeks. Fluvastatin was subsequently increased to 20 mg twice daily and administered according to the same schedule, versus placebo, for a further 6 weeks. Both dosages of fluvastatin substantially improved serum lipid profiles compared with baseline and placebo. Both dosages of fluvastatin significantly reduced low-density- and very-low-density-lipoprotein (LDL, VLDL), cholesterol and triglyceride (TG) compared with placebo, and both dosages significantly elevated high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. The ratio of LDL to HDL was also significantly decreased. Amongst the 58 patients who completed the study, there was no evidence either of myopathy or of hepatotoxicity; mean creatine kinase values remained stable in the fluvastatin arm. Fasting glucose, glycosylated haemoglobin, and fructosamine levels were not markedly affected by active treatment. No serious adverse events attributable to the drug were reported. In conclusion, both dosages of fluvastatin appear to be effective and safe in the management of hyperlipidaemia in this outpatient, maturity-onset, diabetic population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7986315
Epidemiological studies have demonstrated an association between apolipoprotein-(apo)-B containing particles [lipoprotein (Lp) (a), LpE:B; LpC-III:B] and coronary heart disease (CHD). The effect of fluvastatin, a novel competitive inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, on these plasma lipoprotein levels was studied in patients with hypercholesterolaemia after 14 weeks of standard dietary therapy. The results of a placebo-controlled, dose-response study and of the combined data of the European double-blind, controlled studies on the effect of fluvastatin are presented. The patients were selected according to the following criteria of inclusion: plasma low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels > 160 mg dL-1 and premature CHD and/or two associated risk factors, or LDL cholesterol > 190 mg dL-1 and no CHD, plus triglycerides < 300 mg dL-1. All measurements were performed at the Pasteur Institute Central Laboratory. Lp(a), LpE:B and LpC-III:B particles were measured by double-site ELISA. In the placebo-controlled, dose-response study, 429 subjects were randomly assigned to one of the following treatment groups: placebo, fluvastatin 2.5 mg q.p.m., 5 mg q.p.m., 10 mg q.p.m. and 20 mg q.p.m. Treatment with fluvastatin for 6 weeks was associated with a dose-dependent reduction of LDL cholesterol, apoB, LpE:B and LpCIII:B levels. In addition, treatment with fluvastatin 5 mg and 20 mg q.p.m. was associated with a significant reduction in median Lp(a) concentrations (3.2%, P < 0.05 and 6.4%, P < 0.05 respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 7987882
Simvastatin and pravastatin, two 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, were compared in a multinational, randomized, double-blind trial. Patients demonstrating moderate hypercholesterolemia after 10 weeks on a lipid-lowering diet received 6 weeks of treatment with 5 mg/day simvastatin (n = 143) or 10 mg/day pravastatin (n = 138); the simvastatin dose was increased to 10 mg for an additional 6 weeks while the pravastatin dose remained at 10 mg. When administered at lower or equivalent daily doses, simvastatin was significantly more effective than pravastatin in reducing total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Reductions in plasma total and LDL cholesterol were significantly greater with 5 mg simvastatin (16 and 23%) compared to 10 mg pravastatin (12 and 18%; p < or = 0.01). The efficacy of 10 mg simvastatin in lowering these lipid parameters was also superior (19 vs. 11% and 27 vs. 17%, respectively; p < or = 0.01). At 6 and 12 weeks, a significantly higher percentage of simvastatin patients (45 and 59%, respectively) achieved a desirable LDL cholesterol level of < 130 mg/dl (< 3.4 mmol/l) compared to pravastatin patients (32-33%; p < or = 0.05). Both drugs were well tolerated and had comparable safety profiles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7989870
To assess the relationship between cholesterol synthesis and feedback inhibition of bile acid synthesis, we studied seven normal human subjects taking three different doses of chenodiol, 0, 5, and 15 mg/kg per day: once while taking no lovastatin and again while taking lovastatin 80 mg/day. Lovastatin and both doses of chenodiol significantly lowered bile acid synthesis measured by the 14CO2 method, but there was no significant interaction between the perturbations. Both also lowered cholesterol saturation index of gallbladder bile without appreciable interaction, and the combination was distinctly more effective than either medication alone. Lovastatin and low-dose chenodiol both lowered biliary cholesterol secretion without affecting bile acid secretion. Increasing the dose of chenodiol did not further lower cholesterol secretion, but did further reduce saturation index because of an increase in secretion of bile acid and phospholipid. These studies indicate that there is no interaction between cholesterol synthesis and feedback return of bile acid in the enterohepatic circulation with respect to either bile acid synthesis or biliary lipid secretion; that the combination of chenodiol and lovastatin is better than either alone for improving biliary cholesterol saturation; and that the mechanism by which chenodiol lowers cholesterol saturation is dose-dependent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7991041
The high prevalence of hypercholesterolemia in kidney transplant recipients probably contributes to the high cardiovascular mortality in these patients. Except for diet, there is no generally recommended cholesterol-lowering treatment. We conducted a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study with low-dose simvastatin in 40 ciclosporin (CS)-treated kidney transplant recipients during 16 weeks, focusing on side effects and dose finding. In the simvastatin group, the mean serum total and LDL cholesterol concentrations decreased by 23 and 33%, respectively, and the mean serum HDL cholesterol concentration increased by 12%, after 4 weeks of treatment with simvastatin 10 mg daily. Increasing the dose to 20 mg daily in a few patients only resulted in marginal further reductions of the serum cholesterol concentrations at the expense of doubling the plasma simvastatin 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitory activity concentrations. The differences between the changes in the serum cholesterol concentrations in the simvastatin group and the negligible changes in the placebo group were statistically significant. There was no case of proximal myopathy and the serum creatine kinase concentrations did not differ between treatment groups. In conclusion, low-dose simvastatin appears to be a well tolerated and efficacious cholesterol-lowering treatment in CS-treated kidney transplant recipients. Simvastatin 10 mg daily seems to be the most suitable dose for the majority of these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7992293
The efficacy and safety of treatment with recommended doses of lovastatin (20, 40 and 80 mg/day) and pravastatin (10, 20 and 40 mg/day) were compared in 48 men and women with primary hyperlipidemia and LDL-cholesterol > or = 4.1 mmol/l following dietary intervention. Each dose was taken for six weeks in this double-blind, parallel, randomized study. Lovastatin was found to reduce LDL-cholesterol by 22-37% and pravastatin by 18-26%. HDL-cholesterol levels increased and triglyceride levels decreased to the same extent in both groups. The number of patients who reported adverse events in the course of the study was small. No clinically significant changes occurred in laboratory tests, nor in sleep scores obtained from a standardized questionnaire. Neither drug had any effect on the responses to a quality of life screening questionnaire, nor were any significant changes in depressive symptoms seen during the 18 weeks of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 7997016
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8001298
Genetically determined and metabolically induced disturbances in lipid metabolism, as manifested in several types of dyslipidemia, have been shown to be causally related to the development of coronary artery disease (CAD). A diversity of clinical and angiographic studies has been made to evaluate the linkage between plasma lipid-control therapy in the development of initial and recurrent cardiovascular events. The plan of treatment invariably begins with a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet before initiation of drug therapy. However, many patients have difficulty in adhering to the low-fat diet. Fortunately, metabolic studies show that foods which contain fats rich in stearic (saturated) and oleic (monounsaturated) fatty acids may be given in limited amounts to boost patients' compliance to a low-fat diet and to prevent their blood lipids from rising to abnormal levels. A bile acid sequestrant (cholestyramine or colestipol) is the first-line drug for control of hypercholesterolemia. Either gemfibrozil or gemfibrozil plus niacin is prescribed to raise high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels of CAD patients. Approval of two HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, pravastatin and simvastatin, by the FDA gives physicians the additional flexibility of employing a single or a combination drug therapy for optimal control of dyslipidemia. The association of low serum cholesterol level (< 160 mg/dl) with increase in noncardiac mortality has prompted health professionals to consider modifying the universal screening and treatment of serum cholesterol in children and young women and to use hypolipidemic drugs in patients judiciously.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8001304
This multinational, 16-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluated the efficacy and safety of low-dose pravastatin in 325 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and hypercholesterolemia [serum total cholesterol concentrations of 5.2-7.8 mmol/l (200 to 300 mg/dl)]. Patients were randomized to receive pravastatin 10 mg or matching placebo with doubling of the dose after 8 weeks if predefined target levels for total cholesterol [(i.e., < 5.2 mmol/l (200 mg/dl) or > 15% decrease from baseline] had not been achieved. At Week 16, pravastatin-treated patients showed a 21.4% decrease in serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and a 13.5% reduction in serum total cholesterol (TC) concentrations (p < 0.001 compared with placebo). Levels of triglycerides (TG) were reduced 9.6% during pravastatin treatment (p < 0.05 compared with placebo) while high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels were increased 4.4% (p = NS). Adverse events and laboratory test abnormalities were similar among patients treated with pravastatin or placebo. Glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1C) levels remained unchanged. The results of this study demonstrate that low-dose pravastatin is effective and well tolerated for lowering elevated cholesterol concentrations during short-term treatment of patients with NIDDM and hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8002861
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8005129
We report the results of a randomized single-centre study designed to assess the effects of simvastatin on blood lipids, blood biochemistry, haematology and other measures of safety and tolerability in preparation for a large-scale multicentre mortality study. Six hundred and twenty-one individuals considered to be at increased risk of coronary heart disease were randomized, following a 2-month placebo 'run-in' period, to receive 40 mg daily simvastatin, 20 mg daily simvastatin or matching placebo. Their mean age was 63 years, 85% were male, 62% had a history of prior myocardial infarction (MI), and the mean baseline total cholesterol was 7.0 mmol.l-1. Median follow-up in the present report is 3.4 years. Eight weeks after randomization, 40 mg daily simvastatin had reduced non-fasting total cholesterol by 29.2% +/- 1.1 (2.03 +/- 0.08 mmol.l-1) and 20 mg daily simvastatin had reduced it by 26.8% +/- 1.0 (1.87 +/- 0.07 mmol.l-1). Almost all of the difference in total cholesterol at 8 weeks was due to the reduction in LDL cholesterol (40.8% +/- 1.6 and 38.2% +/- 1.4 among patients allocated 40 mg and 20 mg of simvastatin daily respectively), but simvastatin also reduced triglycerides substantially (19.0% and 17.3%) and produced a small increase in HDL cholesterol (6.4% and 4.8%). These effects were largely sustained over the next 3 years, with 40 mg daily simvastatin producing a slightly greater reduction in total cholesterol at 3 years (25.7% +/- 1.9 reduction) than did 20 mg daily simvastatin (22.2% +/- 1.8). There were no differences between the treatment groups in the numbers of reports of 'possible adverse effects' of treatment or of a range of different symptoms or conditions (including those related to sleep or mood) recorded at regular clinic follow-up. Mean levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and creatine kinase were slightly increased by treatment, but there were no significant differences between the treatment groups in the numbers of patients with significantly elevated levels. A slightly lower platelet count in the simvastatin group was the only haematological difference from placebo, with no difference in the numbers of patients with low platelet counts. In summary, the simvastatin regimens studied produced large sustained reductions in total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglyceride and small increases in HDL cholesterol. They were well tolerated, with no evidence of serious side-effects during the first 3 years of this study.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8007738
Atherosclerosis is a major death cause in western industrialized countries. A diagnosing system, medical prevention, and treatment of atherosclerosis is not sufficient so far. A direct acting antiatherosclerotic agent is eagerly waited. ACAT inhibitor approach could provide such an agent. In the formation of atherosclerosis, cholesteryl esters, which are the lipids which accumulate in atheromatous plaques by an aid of macrophages and smooth muscle cells, forming foam cells, may play an important role. ACAT enzyme is responsible for the acylation of cholesterol to cholesteryl esters, a transformation which can be essential in not only cholesteryl esters accumulation at arterial walls but also the absorption of cholesterol in the intestine and the excretion of cholesterol in the liver. From these points, ACAT inhibitors might work against atherosclerosis in three different ways: first, cholesteryl ester accumulation inhibition at arterial walls could be a direct antiatherosclerotic effect; second, cholesterol absorption inhibition at the intestine; and third, cholesterol excretion acceleration at the liver, while the later two effects would result in a reduction of blood cholesterol level--a major risk factor of atherosclerosis. Taking account of this discussion, the ACAT inhibitors would be potent antiatherosclerotic agents. Medicinal research has been contributing full strength to produce an ultimate compound. These efforts should provide a drug which will be useful to patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8014585
We measured bile acid kinetics and bile lipids in 12 human subjects on a metabolic ward in four randomly allocated, 6-7 week periods: 1) lovastatin (40 mg b.i.d) + low cholesterol diet (mean 246 mg/day); 2) lovastatin+high cholesterol diet (mean 1071 mg/day); 3) low cholesterol diet alone; and 4) high cholesterol diet alone. Lovastatin did not significantly alter fractional turnover, synthesis, absorption, enterohepatic cycling, or pool sizes of bile acid measured by the Lindstedt method. The high cholesterol diet increased fractional turnover and synthesis rate of cholic acid, but not chenodeoxycholic acid, without altering pool size of either bile acid. The high cholesterol diet decreased bile acid absorption, but only during lovastatin treatment, suggesting the possibility of a "cholestyramine-like" effect of dietary cholesterol, appreciable at least when biliary cholesterol secretion is reduced by lovastatin. As in previous studies, lovastatin markedly lowered saturation index of gallbladder bile. Increased cholesterol consumption did not significantly alter cholesterol saturation index, suggesting that dietary cholesterol may not be a major factor in cholesterol gallstone pathogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8017448
Elevated cholesterol levels are a major risk factor for coronary heart disease, which remains a significant problem in patients beyond age 65 years. Because drug therapy for the control of hypercholesterolemia in elderly patients is frequently considered to be indicated, we investigated the efficacy and safety of pravastatin in the treatment of elderly subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8023779
Seventy-four patients with plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels > or = 160 mg/dl after an American Heart Association phase 1 diet were randomized to double-blind treatment with fluvastatin, 20 mg/day, or placebo for 6 weeks. Immediate-release niacin was then added to both treatment regimens and titrated to a maximum of 3 g/day for a further 9 weeks. After 6 weeks of fluvastatin monotherapy, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels decreased by 21% (p < 0.001 vs placebo), and after the addition of niacin, response was potentiated to 40% compared with 25% for the niacin control group at study end point (p < 0.001). Fluvastatin, alone and in combination with niacin, also significantly improved high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (increases of about 30%) and triglyceride profiles (decreases of approximately 28%) from baseline. Lipoprotein(a) decreased by 37% in those receiving fluvastatin-niacin but was unaltered in those receiving fluvastatin alone. No serious adverse events were ascribed to fluvastatin, and no cases of myositis were observed. Small, transient, asymptomatic increases in aspartate aminotransferase were noted with fluvastatin-niacin treatment but were not considered clinically relevant. Although the fluvastatin-niacin combination in this study was without evidence of significant transaminitis, myopathy, or rhabdomyolysis, it would seem prudent to continue to monitor its safety with longer term use. In conclusion, fluvastatin, both as monotherapy and in combination with niacin, proved to be an effective, safe, and well-tolerated therapeutic alternative for hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8026027
The Monitored Atherosclerosis Regression Study, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-year trial of lovastatin monotherapy, found that coronary lesions < 50% diameter stenosis (%S) and coronary lesions > or = 50% S at baseline had different responses to therapy. We now report on clinical, lipid, and nonlipid risk factors of treatment response in these lesion subsets.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8031204
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8031206
Niacin and lovastatin are both effective drugs for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and are among the drugs of first choice recommended by the adult treatment panel. To date, however, no studies have directly compared the lipoprotein-modifying effects and safety of lovastatin and niacin across their usual dosage range in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8033951
To test the possibility that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors reduce LDL mass by an increased VLDL catabolism, we determined the effect of simvastatin therapy on cellular metabolism of VLDL in 18 patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia. Six months of simvastatin therapy was followed by 26%, 31% and 21% reduction of plasma total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and plasma triglyceride levels, respectively. Before therapy, patients' VLDL metabolism in cultured human normal skin fibroblasts was similar to control VLDL. Six months after therapy was initiated, a remarkable 2-5-fold increase in VLDL cell metabolism was found. These effects were even more marked when the VLDL was enriched with exogenous recombinant apo E-3. A comparison of the metabolism of the patients' VLDL to control VLDL and LDL, revealed that simvastatin increased metabolic ratios of 60-70% and 45-95%, respectively. Simvastatin therapy was associated with a decrease of VLDL cholesteryl ester content of 19% and increase of the phospholipid content of 13%. The data strongly indicate that simvastatin therapy stimulates VLDL: cell interactions and catabolism, possibly reflecting alterations of the physico-chemical properties of the particle. It is proposed that in addition to other previously described pathways, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors decrease LDL mass through a novel mechanism of enhanced VLDL catabolism prior to the conversion to LDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8036706
Hyperlipidemia is common in heart transplant patients. Lipid-lowering therapy poses special problems, yet may be important because accelerated graft atherosclerosis is the major factor limiting long-term survival. Simvastatin 5 mg/day was started > 6 months after surgery in 26 consecutive cardiac transplant recipients with a total serum cholesterol level of > 250 mg/dl. The dose of simvastatin was increased in 5-mg increments until total serum cholesterol fell below 220 mg/dl or until side effects developed or up to a maximal dose of 20 mg/day. The final average daily dose was 10 mg. Changes in serum lipid levels after 6 months of therapy were compared with data from a matched and concurrent control group of heart transplant patients not taking simvastatin. Immunosuppression for both groups consisted of CsA, AZA, and corticosteroids. In the simvastatin-treated group, the serum level of total cholesterol decreased by 27% from 315 +/- 53 to 230 +/- 38 mg/dl (P < 0.0001), low density lipoprotein cholesterol decreased by 40% from 205 +/- 30 to 123 +/- 32 mg/dl (P < 0.0001), and triglycerides decreased by 21% from 177 +/- 89 to 140 +/- 49 mg/dl (P < 0.01). There was no significant change in high density lipoprotein cholesterol level. Body weight and CsA blood levels remained stable. Steroid intake decreased during the study period to a similar extent in both the treated and the control groups. In the control group, no significant changes in serum lipid levels were observed. Two patients experienced a mild form of myotoxicity. In one other patient simvastatin treatment was stopped after an acute pancreatitis of uncertain etiology developed. Low dose simvastatin effectively lowers total serum cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides in heart transplant patients. With due precautions, the safety profile of the drug in this patient population seems reasonable.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8038303
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8039527
2082 hypercholesterolemic subjects were treated with simvastatin for 12 weeks. In 530 patients the dose was increased after 6 weeks from 10 to 20 mg because of persistently high cholesterol concentrations. Total cholesterol (TC) in the 1552 patients taking 10 mg fell by 1.61 mmol.l-1 (18.4%), LDL cholesterol (LDLC) by 1.53 mmol.l-1 (25.2%), and triglycerides (TG) by 0.13 mmol.l-1 (5.5%); HDL cholesterol (HDLC) significantly increased by 0.05 mmol.l-1 (3.6%). In the 530 patients taking 20 mg TC fell by 1.89 mmol.l-1 (19.9%), LDLC by 1.78 mmol.l-1 (26.0%), and TG by 0.13 mmol.l-1 (5.5%); HDLC increased by 0.05 mmol.l-1 (3.7%). The reductions in TC, LDLC, and TG were positively correlated and the increase in HDLC negatively correlated with their respective baseline values. There were independent significant correlations of the fall in LDLC with sex (MANOVA), baseline TG, and adherence to a lipid-lowering diet. The falls in TG significantly correlated with baseline fructosamine concentrations and dietary adherence. There were 571 adverse events in 16.6% of the patients but no case of myopathy. These results show that simvastatin is usually well tolerated and that its effects on TC and LDLC depend on their baseline concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8041244
The lipid profiles of 192 patients with functioning renal transplants and their etiologic associations and response to therapy, in particular simvastatin, were assessed. Hypercholesterolemia was present in 71.3% of patients within 3 years following transplantation. There were independent associations of serum cholesterol with prednisone dosage (p < 0.05), renal function (p < 0.05), and smoking (p < 0.05) in the early posttransplant period (up to 3 months posttransplant). Those patients whose immunosuppression included cyclosporin had lower serum cholesterol levels than those receiving azathioprine and prednisone (p < 0.02). Plasma triglyceride levels reflected a marked interindividual variation, and no independent correlations were observed. The presence of diabetes mellitus, hypertension (or the use of antihypertensive agents), or the form or duration of prior dialysis did not independently influence the lipid profiles. During the study period 22 patients died, 54.5% due to vascular causes. Those who died of vascular causes had higher serum cholesterol levels than those who died of other causes, which reached statistical significance at 3 years posttransplant (7.74 +/- 0.4 versus 5.5 +/- 0.52 mmol/L; p < 0.02). Cholestyramine was introduced in 30 patients, only 2 of whom continued with therapy beyond 3 months. Simvastatin was used in 43 patients, 20 of whom were receiving cyclosporin, resulting in a mean reduction in serum cholesterol of 16.5% (p < 0.001) and in serum triglycerides of 21% (p < 0.05). No clinical or biochemical evidence of muscle, liver, or renal toxicity occurred in 15.4 +/- 0.9 months of follow-up.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8044919
Numerous reports suggest that coronary artery disease can regress with lipoprotein manipulation. Many of these reports lack control groups and contain relatively small numbers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8050207
Eight patients with biopsy-proven primary nephrotic syndrome were included in an open, prospective, two-year study of lovastatin. One patients was withdrawn after 6 months due to an asymptomatic rise in creatinine phosphokinase, which was rapidly reversed after interruption of lovastatin. In the remaining patients, treatment was well-tolerated and produced no side effects. After 2 years of treatment, these 7 patients had decreases in total cholesterol from 446 +/- 165 to 250 +/- 57 mg/dl (p < 0.001), LDL cholesterol from 343 +/- 121 to 174 +/- 49 mg/dl (p < 0.001), Apo B lipoprotein from 162 +/- 60 to 108 +/- 42 mg/dl (p < 0.05), triglycerides from 336 +/- 273 to 182 +/- 71 mg/dl (p < 0.04). There was no change in HDL cholesterol. The LDL/HDL cholesterol and the total/HDL cholesterol ratios fell from 15.0 +/- 12.1 and 19.1 +/- 17.2 mg/dl before the study to 4.4 +/- 1.2 and 6.3 +/- 1.6 mg/dl, respectively, at 2 years. A decrease in proteinuria from 8.6 +/- 4.6 to 5.0 +/- 3.7 g/24 h (p < 0.02) was noted in 4 patients on concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy. Renal function remained stable in all patients throughout the study, except for one whose moderate impairment progressed to end-stage renal failure requiring dialysis 3 months poststudy. We conclude that long-term lovastatin in patients with primary nephrotic syndrome is an effective and generally safe treatment for accompanying dyslipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8050214
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8054965
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8054972
An ex vivo approach to gene therapy for familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) has been developed in which the recipient is transplanted with autologous hepatocytes that are genetically corrected with recombinant retroviruses carrying the LDL receptor. We describe the treatment of a 29 year old woman with homozygous FH by ex vivo gene therapy directed to liver. She tolerated the procedures well and in situ hybridization of liver tissue four months after therapy revealed evidence for engraftment of transgene expressing cells. The patient's LDL/HDL ratio declined from 10-13 before gene therapy to 5-8 following gene therapy, improvements which have remained stable for the duration of the treatment (18 months). This represents the first report of human gene therapy in which stable correction of a therapeutic endpoint has been achieved.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8060425
Niemann-Pick type C is an autosomal-recessive, neurovisceral storage disorder that results from defective cholesterol esterification. Cholesterol-lowering agents have been demonstrated to decrease hepatic lipids in Niemann-Pick type C patients. The objective was to determine the effects of cholesterol-lowering agents on neurologic features and to develop a noninvasive method of monitoring clinical response. A 9-month-old boy with progressive hepatosplenomegaly and neurodevelopmental delay was studied. Water-suppressed proton magnetic resonance spectra from a supraventricular volume of central white and gray matter revealed an abnormal lipid signal. The patient was treated with cholesterol-lowering agents (i.e., cholestyramine, lovastatin). Repeat standardized neurodevelopmental assessments (Peabody and Griffith scales) at 13 and 19 months were normal and magnetic resonance spectra no longer detected the previously observed lipid resonance. Early treatment of Niemann-Pick type C patients with cholesterol-lowering agents appeared to have short-term beneficial effects. Magnetic resonance spectra provided a noninvasive means of monitoring CNS response.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8062305
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in most industrialised countries and is a major source of health care expenditure worldwide. Identification and management of risk factors for the development of coronary heart disease (CHD) have enormous potential for improving health and reducing health care costs. There is evidence that the reduction in deaths from CHD has occurred earlier and to a greater extent in countries with aggressive policies of cardiovascular risk factor intervention. Likewise, the treatment of patients presenting with acute myocardial infarction (MI) should be aimed at both extending event-free survival and improving the quality of life. This review focuses on recent advances and future directions in the understanding of risk factor modification before an MI (prevention), treatment of MI including thrombolysis and primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, and the subsequent management of patients after MI.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8067175
Patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) are at high risk of cardiovascular disease for many reasons and especially due to the fact that dyslipidemias are more frequent in this group of patients. Fibrate derivatives are the drugs of choice when hypertriglyceridemia is the main lipid anomaly. When hypercholesterolemia is predominant, the use of resins and nicotinic acid has been advocated but these drugs are poorly tolerated on a long-term basis. We assessed the effect of simvastatin, a recent HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor in 12 NIDDM patients with hypercholesterolemia. After 4 weeks of placebo, which did not significantly modify the lipid values, patients were given simvastatin at increasing dosages (from 10 to a maximum of 40 mg daily) during 24 weeks. Compliance and clinical tolerance were excellent. There was no major biological side effect, but a significant deterioration of glucose control was noted at the end of the study. Simvastatin reduced total cholesterol by 28%, LDL-cholesterol by 36% and apo B by 31%. Concomitantly, there was an increase of HDL-cholesterol by 15%. This improvement of lipid profile persisted during the 24 weeks of treatment. Comparing the patients with pure hypercholesterolemia to those presenting combined hyperlipidemia, it was evident that the hypolipidemic effect was more marked in the diabetic subjects with combined hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8067656
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8070502
Combined hyperlipidaemia and the presence of small and dense LDL particles in the circulation are associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction. The effect of pravastatin on plasma lipoproteins and on LDL size has been evaluated in a single-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study in 24 patients with combined hyperlipidaemia; 12 patients on pravastatin and 12 on placebo. After 16 weeks on pravastatin, plasma total (-15%) and LDL (-23%) cholesterol and apo B (-13%) levels were significantly reduced and apo AI (+6%) had increased. LDL size (measured by gradient gel electrophoresis) had not changed. No adverse effect was observed. The study suggests that, in combined hyperlipidaemia, LDL size is not affected by variation in LDL receptor activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8076581
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8078332
The effects of Ro 40-5967, a chemically novel Ca2+ channel antagonist, were examined on K(+)- and norepinephrine (NE)-stimulated intracellular free Ca2+ concentrations in dog coronary artery vascular muscle cells (VMC). Intracellular Ca2+ activity increases stimulated by NE or K+ were measured by shuttered, low-intensity illumination with the fluorescent Ca2+ indicator fluo3 in single myovascular cells < or = 2 days after isolation. Pretreatment of VMC for 5 min with 10 microM Ro 40-5967 significantly reduced intracellular Ca2+ activity increase on exposure to 100 mM K+ in both subsarcolemmal (SSL) and central regions during K+ depolarization, similar to actions of diltiazem. More impressively, Ro 40-5967 (but not diltiazem) also reduced intracellular Ca2+ activity during stimulation with 100 nM NE to basal level at both peripheral and central regions. Prevention of Ca2+ increases, especially those caused by release from central Ca2+ stores, during NE stimulation is an unusual property for a Ca2+ antagonist, as shown by the contrast with diltiazem, which did not significantly attenuate Ca2+ increases during NE stimulation. Another Ro 40-5967 feature was vascular selectivity; i.e., Ro 40-5967 had only a minor effect on contraction frequency of rat myocardial cells while significantly inhibiting spontaneous contractions of rat spontaneously active VMC. In comparison, diltiazem and verapamil potently inhibited both vascular and cardiac muscle spontaneous contractions. The decidedly stronger actions of Ro 40-5967 as compared with those of benzothiazepine or phenylalkylamine on NE-stimulated Ca2+ increases, together with less action on cardiac pacemakers, are differences that appear to distinguish Ro 40-5967 from other Ca2+ antagonists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8086488
The hydrophilic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor pravastatin is not taken up via a carrier-mediated system into Hep G2 cells. Therefore, Hep G2 cells are not a good model for human hepatocytes with respect to elucidation of the effect of hydrophilic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Sulfobromophthalein (BSP), on the other hand, is taken up into Hep G2 cells by carrier systems with Km and Vmax values almost identical to freshly isolated hepatocytes. These results indicate that the hepatocellular BSP transporting proteins expressed in Hep G2 cells (bilitranslocase and BSP/bilirubin binding protein) are not involved in the hepatocellular uptake of pravastatin. In contrast to the hepatocellular sodium-taurocholate cotransporter, which is not functioning in Hep G2 cells, we found a saturable transport of cholate with Km and Vmax values identical to those in cultured rat hepatocytes in the presence of sodium.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8087964
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8089776
The so called post-cholecystectomy syndrome is common, intractable, often progressive, causes prolonged suffering, and has no approved treatment. It usually presents with episodic biliary pains (colics), and postprandial dyspepsia (bloating and indigestion). Because treating a very recalcitrant case with lovastatin provided prolonged remission, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors were given to 12 subsequent patients with similar symptoms.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8093139
To compare the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol-lowering efficacy of low-dose combinations of cholestyramine and fluvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8106688
The purpose of this study was to determine whether the impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation of hypercholesterolemic patients is due to decreased availability of L-arginine, the substrate for nitric oxide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8106695
Do the benefits of intensive lipid-lowering therapy extend to patients with only borderline or moderately elevated levels of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol?

Abstract for pubmed ID 8107933
The effect of simvastatin treatment on the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) subfraction profile was studied in 26 patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia. Before treatment LDL consisted of three LDL subfractions, using density-gradient ultracentrifugation (LDL1, LDL2 and LDL3) present in a relatively narrow density range (d = 1.030-1.045 g/ml). Simvastatin did not influence this profile with respect to the number and density range of the LDL subfractions. However, the composition of the isolated LDL subfractions changed after treatment, as evidenced by the reversal towards normal of the increased cholesterol/protein ratio (mean 1.51 before vs. 1.38 after therapy, p < 0.01; mean 1.36 in normolipidaemic subjects). When the subjects were stratified by their plasma triglyceride levels or the change in plasma triglycerides during simvastatin therapy, a strong dependence of the LDL subfraction profile and its composition on plasma triglyceride levels was observed; increasing plasma triglyceride levels were associated with a more dense LDL subfraction profile, characterized by a high relative contribution of dense LDL3 to total LDL and changes in LDL composition, reflected by a relatively low cholesterol/protein ratio. Our results indicate that in patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia: (1) plasma triglyceride levels have an important role in determining the properties of LDL and (2) simvastatin treatment results in changes in composition of LDL, which may affect the intrinsic metabolic characteristics and thus the atherogenic potential of LDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8108314
The influence of two inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, simvastatin and pravastatin, on the level of urinary 6 beta-hydroxycortisol/17-hydroxycorticosteroids (6 beta-OHC/17-OHCS) ratio was determined in two groups of normolipidemic Caucasian subjects (n = 18 and n = 14, respectively). The 6 beta-OHC/17-OHCS ratio increased significantly after simvastatin administration (20 mg day-1 for 17 days) (P = 0.0125) whereas no modification was observed after pravastatin administration (20 mg day-1 during 17 days). As the level of 6 beta-OHC/17-OHCS ratio is a function of cytochrome P-450 3A activity, these results suggest that in Caucasian subjects, simvastatin but not pravastatin could be a weak inducer of cytochrome P-450 3A. This contrasting effect could be related to the major pharmacological differences existing between these two drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8109547
In a comparative study, 158 patients with type IIa or IIb primary hypercholesterolemia received either placebo, nicotinic acid extended-release capsules (0.5 to 1.0 g twice daily), pravastatin (40 mg at bedtime), or the combination for a short-term, 8-week period. A long-term, 88-week phase followed in which the addition of other lipid-lowering agents was permitted. During the short-term phase, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were lower, in relation to baseline, with nicotinic acid treatment (-21%) than with placebo (P < or = 0.05), with pravastatin (-33%) than with either placebo (p < or = 0.001) or nicotinic acid (p < or = 0.05) and with combination therapy (-49%) than with the other 3 treatments (p < or = 0.05) at all weeks measured. At week 8, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were increased, in relation to placebo, by nicotinic acid treatment (12%; p < or = 0.05), pravastatin therapy (13%; p < or = 0.01) and combination therapy (16%; p < or = 0.01). Adverse events were less frequent in the pravastatin and placebo groups (p < or = 0.05). In comparison with placebo, treatment with nicotinic acid resulted in significant increases in aspartate and alanine aminotransferase. The placebo and pravastatin groups did not differ significantly regarding adverse events or laboratory parameters. Similar results were observed in the long-term phase. Therefore, pravastatin is very effective and well tolerated in the treatment of type IIa or IIb primary hypercholesterolemia, and is superior to nicotinic acid in both efficacy and adverse event profile.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8112375
We have studied the effects of 12 weeks of lovastatin (20 mg per day) on platelet function and thromboxane formation in 18 patients with type II hypercholesterolaemia in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, prospective study. Lovastatin significantly reduced total serum and LDL-cholesterol by 20% and 25% respectively. Washed platelets of lovastatin-treated patients had significantly reduced collagen-induced aggregation and thromboxane formation ex vivo. There was no change in ADP-induced platelet aggregation, but a significant increase in prostacyclin (iloprost)-stimulated platelet cyclic AMP concentrations in lovastatin-treated patients. This was associated with a significant increase in the number of prostacyclin receptors in platelet membranes prepared from lovastatin-treated patients. There was also an increase in platelet thromboxane receptors. There were no such changes in the placebo group. These data confirm our original observation of normalization of platelet function in hypercholesterolaemia by HMGCoA reductase inhibitors and suggest changes in platelet membrane composition at the megakaryocyte level as a possible site of action.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8115891
We reviewed all randomized, controlled angiographic trials to assess the impact of intensive lipid modulation on the progression or regression of angiographically defined coronary disease. Five of seven trials satisfied selection criteria: Cholesterol-Lowering Atherosclerosis Study, Program on the Surgical Control of the Hyperlipidemias, Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study, Regression of Coronary Atherosclerosis During Treatment of Familial Hypercholesterolemia, and St. Thomas' Atherosclerosis Regression Study. We compared patient selection, baseline and on-trial lipid values, changes in angiographic disease scores, and clinical outcomes. In all five trials, treatment reduced levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol substantially (range -32% to -46%). Treatment reduced risk of angiographic progression by almost 50% compared to controls. Furthermore, nearly one third of drug-treated patients showed angiographic regression of disease. Regression correlated well with reduction in LDL cholesterol. Although overall improvement in stenosis was modest, reduction in clinical events was impressive. Intensive lipid modulation may "stabilize" existing lesions, making them less "active" (ie, less prone to rupture or thrombosis), thereby reducing risk of acute coronary syndromes. These studies clearly support intensive lipid modulation in patients with established coronary disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8117177
Few studies have been performed to compare fenofibrate, a second-generation fibrate, and simvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor. This study was aimed to compare the efficacy of both drugs in reducing atherogenic risk factors in type IIa or IIb hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8120870
Tocotrienols exhibit antioxidant and cholesterol-biosynthesis-inhibitory activities and may be of value as antiatherosclerotic agents. The mechanism of their hypolipidemic action involves posttranscriptional suppression of HMG-CoA reductase (HMGR) in a manner mimicking the action of putative non-sterol feedback inhibitors. The in vitro cholesterol-biosynthesis-inhibitory and HMGR-suppressive activities in HepG2 cells of an expanded series of benzopyran and tetrahydronaphthalene isosteres and the hypocholesterolemic activity of selected compounds assessed in orally dosed chickens are presented. Preliminary antioxidant data of these compounds have been obtained using cyclic voltammetry and Cu-induced LDL oxidation assays. The farnesyl side chain and the methyl/hydroxy substitution pattern of gamma-tocotrienol deliver a high level of HMGR suppression, unsurpassed by synthetic analogues of the present study. In orally dosed chickens, 8-bromotocotrienol (4o), 2-desmethyltocotrienol (4t), and the tetrahydronaphthalene derivative 35 exhibit a greater degree of LDL cholesterol lowering than the natural tocotrienols.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8122478
The safety, tolerability, and efficacy of 20 mg daily doses of simvastatin and pravastatin were compared in this double-blind, randomized trial of 210 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. Simvastatin was found to produce significantly greater mean percent reductions from baseline in total cholesterol (28% versus 21%), LDL cholesterol (38% versus 29%), and apolipoprotein B concentrations (25% versus 17%) than did pravastatin, and a greater percentage of patients receiving simvastatin (94% versus 80%) had at least a 20% reduction in LDL cholesterol. Both simvastatin and pravastatin produced similar significant mean percent reductions from baseline in triglyceride concentrations (14% and 11%) and significant mean percent increases in the concentrations of HDL cholesterol (7% for both) and apolipoprotein A-I (4% for both). Resulting reductions in the ratios of total cholesterol: HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol: HDL cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B: apolipoprotein A-I were significantly greater in the simvastatin group. Both simvastatin and pravastatin were well tolerated. The incidence and severity of clinical and laboratory adverse experiences were similar in both groups, and none were classified as serious. The results of this study confirm the results of prior studies that have found simvastatin to produce lipid-lowering effects superior to those of pravastatin when administered at equivalent mg doses, while demonstrating similar safety profiles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8122946
Total and lipoprotein cholesterol levels continue to be predictors of coronary heart disease risk in men and women over 65 years old. Cholesterol-lowering trials, however, while sometimes including such subjects, have not concentrated on this age group. The Cholesterol Reduction in Seniors Program was a five-center pilot study to assess feasibility of recruitment and efficacy of cholesterol lowering in this age group.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8124836
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors are widely prescribed for hyperlipidemia, yet their effect on the evolution of coronary atherosclerosis has not been defined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8148715
To assess the validity of the item as a measure of the volume of a drug prescribed; and to investigate the possibility that higher quantities per item are prescribed for patients who are not exempt from the prescription charge.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8149518
Cholesterol lowering over 1- to 3-year trials is associated with modest regression or no progression of focal coronary artery stenoses compared with progression in controls, a decrease in cardiac events proportionately more than the modest improvement in percent stenosis, and in experimental animals improved endothelial-mediated coronary vasodilation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8149677
Experimental data show that myocardial infarction (MI) results in regional depletion of myocardial catecholamines more extensively than necrosis. To investigate the extent of adrenergic denervation post MI in humans, we examined 16 patients, 59 +/- 12 years old, with recent (7-12 days) MI. Resting thallium-201 (201Tl) single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) imaging was performed to assess necrosis; metaiodobenzylguanidine I123 (MIBG) SPECT was used to evaluate adrenergic denervation. 201Tl and I123 MIBG defects were evaluated quantitatively using polar maps, and differences in defects were expressed as percent of total polar map. In all patients, I123 MIBG defect was larger than 201Tl defect, and difference ranged from 19 to 61% (39.5 +/- 13.2%). Thrombolysis and age > 60 did not influence the difference. Anterior MI showed larger differences (44 +/- 13 vs. 32 +/- 11%, p < 0.05); patients with ischemic electrocardiographic (ECG) changes in leads without abnormal Q waves had larger differences (45 +/- 9 vs. 33 +/- 14%, p < 0.05). It was concluded that (a) patients with recent MI present denervation larger than 201Tl perfusion defect, and (b) patients with anterior MI and ischemic ECG changes present a larger area of denervation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8154645
To review the association between low serum cholesterol and death from injury.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8157036
The efficacy and safety of the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor fluvastatin have been evaluated in a double blind study in 52 patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia. A standard AHA Phase II lipid lowering diet was prescribed throughout the study. After 6 weeks of a single blind dosage stabilisation period, in which patients received fluvastatin 40 mg qPM, patients were randomly allocated to one of two double blind treatment groups: group A (n = 24) received fluvastatin 20 mg b.d. for 12 weeks and fluvastatin 20 mg AM + 40 mg PM for an additional 12 weeks; Group B (n = 28) received fluvastatin 40 mg qPM during the entire study. Safety and tolerability were evaluated by the analysis of biochemical and haematological parameters, and ophthalmological and physical examinations. Efficacy was analysed by the determination of plasma lipids, lipoproteins and apoproteins. Fluvastatin 40 mg/d was associated with up to a 27.4% decrease in LDL-C and a 9.6% increase in HDL-C concentrations. Increasing the dose of fluvastatin from 20 mg b.d. to 60 mg per day in Group A was associated with a 7.1% decrease in LDL-C, a 12.1% increase of HDL-C and a 12.8% decrease in the LDL-C/HDL-C ratio. In comparison with Group B (40 mg qPM) LDL-C, HDL-C and the LDL-C/HDL-C ratio in Group A (60 mg) differed by -8.9%, 6.6% and -12%, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8162627
Vein graft atherosclerosis is a common and serious complication of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). There is mounting evidence that lipoprotein abnormalities play an equally important role in the development of lesions in saphenous vein grafts after CABG as in native coronary vessel disease. The potential benefit of low-dose lipid lowering combination therapy in these patients has not been investigated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we compared the efficacy and safety of a low-dose combination of colestipol 10 g and simvastatin 10 mg/day (CS) to colestipol 10 mg and bezafibrate 400 mg/day (CB) for 2 months in 33 patients with serum total cholesterol > 6.5 mmol/l and triglyceride < 4.5 mmol/l who had undergone CABG for severe coronary artery disease. In the CS group, total cholesterol decreased by 29% and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol by 42%; similarly, CB reduced total cholesterol by 17%, LDL cholesterol by 23%, triglyceride by 19%, and increased high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol by 14%. Lipoprotein (a) and hemostatic factors were unaffected by either therapy in this study. Both combination therapies were well tolerated with no significant clinical or biochemical side effects. We conclude that low-dose combinations of colestipol and simvastatin or colestipol and bezafibrate are effective and well tolerated in the management of moderate hyperlipidemia in patients who had undergone CABG.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8166080
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8166438
The possible growth regulatory role of isoprenoids (mevalonate-derived products) in secondary cultures of normal human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC), as compared to the two human breast cancer cell lines Hs578T and MDA231, was investigated. All three cell types responded promptly to inhibitors of HMG CoA reductase and thereby became arrested. Whereas the growth of MDA231 cells was totally independent of exogenous growth factors, the proliferation of HMEC and Hs578T was blocked or partially blocked, respectively, following growth factor-depletion. Closer analysis showed that the depressive effects on cell growth, induced by HMG CoA reductase inhibition and growth factor depletion, were from a kinetic point of view identical. These data suggest that the biosynthesis of isoprenoids may comprise one event involved in the intracellular mechanisms lying behind the growth factor-mediated growth of mammary epithelial cells. The effects of addition of different known isoprenoids on growth of cells subjected to HMG CoA reductase inhibition or growth factor depletion were also investigated. It was found that coenzyme Q and dolichol significantly delayed growth arrest in all three cell types. In contrast, cholesterol and isopentenyladenine were ineffective.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8172091
To determine whether psyllium must be mixed with food to lower serum cholesterol, 18 modestly hypercholesterolemic subjects were studied for three 2-wk periods, in random order, separated by a 2-wk return to a National Cholesterol Education Program Step 2 diet. Compared with values for subjects consuming control wheat-bran cereal (63 g/d), after 2 wk of 54 g psyllium-enriched cereal/d containing 7.3 g psyllium, serum total, LDL, and HDL cholesterol, respectively, were reduced by 8% (6.15 +/- 0.15 vs 6.71 +/- 0.19 mmol/L, P < 0.01), 11% (4.24 +/- 0.15 vs 4.78 +/- 0.19 mmol/L, P < 0.02), and 7% (0.99 +/- 0.05 vs 1.07 +/- 0.05 mmol/L, P < 0.01). When 7.6 g of the same type of psyllium as in the test cereal was taken between meals, serum total (6.50 +/- 0.19 mmol/L), LDL (4.50 +/- 0.21 mmol/L), and HDL (1.06 +/- 0.06 mmol/L) cholesterol were no different from control values, and total cholesterol was greater than after psyllium cereal (P < 0.05). We conclude that psyllium must be mixed with foods to have the maximum effect on serum cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8179675
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8180510
A multidisciplinary team approach with focused objectives characterizes research at Baylor College of Medicine into the causes, prevention, and treatment of atherosclerotic disease. Current clinical activities range from programs to modify lifestyle for the primary prevention of coronary artery disease to a large, angiographically monitored lipid-lowering trial. In basic research, much attention has been focused on the plasma lipoproteins and their roles in atherogenesis. The current review highlights recent advances in ongoing basic research involving 1) apolipoprotein (apo) B, whose form apo B-100 serves as a ligand for the low-density lipoprotein receptor; 2) lipoprotein[a], elevated plasma levels of which are predictive of atherosclerotic disease; and 3) transplantation arteriopathy, which impedes long-term survival of cardiac transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8182841
We now have conclusive proof that intensive treatment reduces the microvascular complications of IDDM. ACE inhibitors appear to slow the progression of established nephropathy. Drug-induced malabsorption has the potential to increase levothyroxine dose requirement.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8184812
The effects on sleep of lovastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor administered as a lipophilic lactone prodrug, and pravastatin, an inhibitor administered in its active, hydrophilic, open-acid form, were compared by polysomnographic sleep monitoring. Twenty-four men with primary hypercholesterolemia (low-density lipoprotein 4 to 7 mmol/liter) each received 2 of the following 3 treatments in a randomized, incomplete block, crossover design study: lovastatin (40 mg/day), pravastatin (40 mg/day), and placebo. Test drug was administered once daily for 4 weeks during each half of the crossover study. Subjective sleep assessments were obtained throughout each treatment period, and polysomnographic recordings were obtained at the end of the 4-week treatment periods. Treatment periods were separated by a 1-week washout. Lovastatin did not differ from placebo regarding any polysomnographic parameter except "number of entries to wake," for which it produced fewer entries (i.e., change was in the direction of improvement). Pravastatin did not differ from placebo regarding any polysomnographic measures, but was associated with worsening in relation to lovastatin in the following parameters: sleep efficiency, entries to wake, percent rapid eye movement sleep, wake time during sleep, and total wake time. For each of these 4 parameters, although neither drug showed marked differences from placebo, the mean change in the lovastatin group was in the direction of improved sleep, whereas the change in the pravastatin group was in the direction of disturbed sleep. Neither lovastatin nor pravastatin had any effect on subjective, qualitative sleep ratings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8185133
To review current knowledge of apolipoprotein quantitation used in the clinical management of persons with or at risk for the development of premature coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8187355
The influence of simvastatin, a competitive inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase, on quantitative and qualitative changes in lipoprotein metabolism was investigated in 18 patients (group I, 10 with primary kidney disease and group II, 8 with diabetic nephropathy) with nephrotic syndrome. Nephrotic patients exhibited severe hyperlipidemia (serum cholesterol 390 +/- 17 mg/dl and triglyceride 335 +/- 42 mg/dl; mean +/- SEM) and had significantly higher lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] levels (54 +/- 12 mg/dl; median 31 mg/dl, p < 0.01) compared with 20 healthy subjects (mean 12 +/- 1.8 mg/dl; median 7 mg/dl). Fifty-six percent of the patients and 15% of the controls had values greater than 30 mg/dl. Treatment with simvastatin in increasing doses over a period of three months (13 patients received 40 mg/day and 5 patients 20 mg/day at the end of the third month) reduced LDL-cholesterol in both groups of patients (35% and 54%) as well as apolipoprotein B (apoB) (31% and 46%) significantly, but Lp(a) levels were not influenced (57 +/- 21 vs 59 +/- 20 and 50 +/- 14 vs 53 +/- 16 mg/dl, respectively). On the other hand a complex change in lipoprotein composition occurred. The ratio of LDL apoB/LDL cholesterol-ester increased significantly (0.75 +/- 0.03 to 0.84 +/- 0.03 and 0.80 +/- 0.03 to 1.02 +/- 0.1, respectively) and cholesterol concentration in VLDL (64 +/- 16 to 39 +/- 7 and 74 +/- 18 to 55 +/- 74 mg/dl, respectively) was reduced.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8192170
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) carries a markedly increased risk for coronary artery disease (CAD). Reduction of plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels to the normal range may prevent premature atherosclerosis and usually requires a combination of cholesterol-lowering drugs. The major objective of this study is to compare two different drug combinations for the treatment of heterozygous FH.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8193425
To review the structure and physiologic function of lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)], review the association of Lp(a) with the development of atherosclerosis, and to critically evaluate the current literature regarding the effects of lipid-lowering drug therapy on Lp(a) serum concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8196151
Numerous attempts have been made to prevent late restenosis after successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), but there is still no effective treatment. This report describes the effect of an oral lipid-lowering agent, pravastatin, on restenosis after successful PTCA. Sixty-six patients who underwent successful elective PTCA were assigned to a pravastatin-treated group (Group 1, n = 29) or an untreated group (Group 2, n = 37) in a prospective and randomized fashion. Pravastatin (5 mg or 10 mg twice a day) was given to Group 1 patients from day 3 after the procedure. Selective coronary angiography was repeated 3 to 5 months later, or sooner if the patient developed angina pectoris. The serum cholesterol level was decreased significantly in Group 1 (from 215.7 +/- 44.3 mg/dl to 181.2 +/- 30.3 mg/dl, p < 0.001), but not in Group 2 (from 191.9 +/- 30.8 mg/dl to 191.8 +/- 33.3 mg/dl, p = ns), at the time of repeat coronary angiography. However, there were no differences between the groups with regard to the recurrence of angina, the need for repeat PTCA, or restenosis, as assessed by quantitative analysis of coronary cineangiograms. These results suggest that oral pravastatin therapy does not effectively prevent late restenosis after successful PTCA by this mode of administration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8198043
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8198930
1. The effects of simvastatin and pravastatin on measures of central nervous system activity were investigated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised crossover study. 2. Twenty-five healthy volunteers sequentially took 40 mg day-1 simvastatin, 40 mg day-1 pravastatin or placebo for 4 weeks, separated by a 4-6 week washout phase. 3. CNS measures included EEG evoked potentials, power spectral analysis, Leeds Sleep Questionnaire, Hospital Anxiety Depression (HAD) Scale, and Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST); biochemical measures included plasma cholesterol, liver enzymes (gamma-GT, AST, ALT) and creatine kinase. 4. Mean cholesterol concentrations with both drugs were significantly lower than with placebo, and the cholesterol-lowering effect was greater with simvastatin. There were no significant differences between treatment in EEG evoked potentials, HAD Scale, or DSST scores. On the sleep measure, subjects reported significantly greater difficulty in getting to sleep while on simvastatin than on pravastatin, but neither score differed from placebo. No significant correlations were observed between sleep ratings and either plasma cholesterol concentrations or EEG evoked potentials. 5. The study showed that, while both drugs reduced plasma cholesterol concentrations, neither exerted significant effects, compared with placebo, on EEG evoked potentials, mood, sleep, or cognitive performance after 4 weeks of chronic administration in healthy volunteers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8199696
To investigate the effects of pravastatin and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) on cholesterol and bile acid metabolism in humans, 41 patients with cholesterol gallstone disease were allocated to four groups and treated with pravastatin (20 mg/day), UDCA (600 mg/day), both pravastatin and UDCA, or neither drug (control) for 1-2 weeks prior to elective cholecystectomy. Cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase activity and serum levels of total 7 alpha-hydroxycholesterol were significantly increased by pravastatin and unaffected by UDCA. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity was markedly increased by pravastatin and decreased by UDCA. UDCA significantly decreased biliary cholesterol concentration and the cholesterol saturation index and prolonged the nucleation time; however, pravastatin alone had little effect on biliary lithogenicity. Serum total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels were reduced most by the combined administration of pravastatin and UDCA. In conclusion, at a dose of 20 mg/day, pravastatin increased bile acid synthesis but did not decrease biliary lithogenicity. UDCA had no significant effect on bile acid synthesis, but markedly decreased biliary lithogenicity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8200011
Patients with ischemic heart disease are often affected by a mixed hyperlipoproteinemia, where a hypercholesterolemia of various severity is accompanied by slight or moderate hypertriglyceridemia (type IIb dyslipidemia). Current epidemiologic evidence suggests that hypertriglyceridemia has not to be disregarded, particularly in certain subgroups of patients. We evaluated the effect of the association of simvastatin 10 mg/day [an hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor] and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n3-PUFA) in comparison with simvastatin 10 mg/day alone. The subjects undergoing the study were affected by coronary artery disease and showed hypercholesterolemia (LDL-cholesterol > 160 mg/dl) and moderate hypertriglyceridemia (serum triglycerides 200-400 mg/dl) after 2 months of moderate dietary therapy for hyperlipidemia (Step 1 of the National Cholesterol Education Program [NCEP]). Thirty-nine patients were randomized to have 1 of 2 scheduled treatments. At the same time the patients underwent severe dietary therapy for hyperlipidemia (Step 2 of the NCEP). After 3 months of treatment, total-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides were significantly lower than basal values in both groups (p < 0.05). Total-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides were lower in the group treated with n3-PUFA and simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone. However, only for triglycerides was the difference significant (-39.99% in patients treated with n3-PUFA and simvastatin versus -25.65% in patients treated with simvastatin alone, particularly in the first group of 35.85%; p < 0.05). With regard to HDL-cholesterol, the differences between the basal values and the 2 groups of treatments were non significant. Remarkable side effects were not observed in the 2 groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8205598
The present review discusses the mechanism of action, efficacy, safety profile, and potential uses of lovastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia. Data on the efficacy of lovastatin are evaluated in different patient populations; also, the efficacy of this agent in the long-term treatment of patients followed by the author is presented. No new safety concerns have emerged during long-term treatment of selected patients with lovastatin, and, in compliant patients, hypolipidemic effects are maintained during continuous treatment with therapy that exceeds 5 years. On the basis of available data, lovastatin should be regarded as one of the drugs of first choice in the treatment of adult patients with hypercholesterolemia and increased plasma concentrations of low-density lipoproteins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8205659
This study aimed to determine if cholesterol-lowering therapy improves endothelium-dependent coronary vasomotion in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8208513
Mutated ras genes are found in a variety of human tumors. For biological activity the gene product p21 ras needs to be bound to the cell membrane by a farnesyl residue. Treatment of tumor cells with lovastatin reduces the availability of farnesyl pyrophosphate for the modification of the ras proteins. The membrane localization of p21 ras has been reduced by 30-36% after the tumor cells have grown in the presence of 10 microM lovastatin for 7 days. The extent of the inhibition depends on the growth kinetics of the cell lines.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8209875
The prevalence of subclinical atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease was evaluated among the 5,201 adults aged > or = 65 years in four communities participating in the Cardiovascular Health Study from June 1989 through May 1990. A combined index based on electrocardiogram and echocardiogram abnormalities, carotid artery wall thickness and stenosis based on carotid ultrasound, decreased ankle-brachial blood pressure, and positive response to a Rose Questionnaire for angina or intermittent claudication defined subclinical disease. The prevalence of subclinical disease was 36% in women and 38.7% in men and increased with age. Among women, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, blood glucose, and cigarette smoking were positively associated, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol negatively associated, with subclinical disease. In men, systolic blood pressure, blood glucose, and cigarette smoking were independent risk factors in multiple logistic regression analyses. The risk factors for subclinical disease are, therefore, similar to those for clinical disease at younger ages, especially among women. It is possible that older individuals with subclinical disease are at very high risk of developing clinical disease and that more aggressive interventions to prevent clinical disease should be oriented to individuals with subclinical disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8246234
A series of 7-[2,3-diaryl-5-(1-methylethyl)-1H-pyrrol-1-yl]-3,5- dihydroxy-6-heptenoates was prepared and evaluated for its ability to inhibit the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase in vitro. Maintaining a 5-(1-methylethyl) substituent found to be optimal in related studies, structure-activity relationships were established for compounds modified at positions 2, 3, and 4 of the pyrrole ring. The 4-fluorophenyl group was preferred at the pyrrole 2-position, while incorporation of a range of substituted phenyl groups and pyridyl substituents at the 3-position provided compounds with equivalent enzyme inhibitory activities and widely different lipophilicities. Pentasubstituted pyrrole 3h was found to have a 10-fold greater potency than lovastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8252687
Do the benefits of intensive lipid-lowering therapy seen in symptomatic patients extend to high-risk subjects who have never had symptoms?

Abstract for pubmed ID 8257447
The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor class of cholesterol-lowering agents reduces very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) and low density lipoproteins (LDL) and slightly increases high density lipoproteins (HDL). However, the effects of these agents on subclasses within the LDL and HDL fractions are not well understood. We have employed an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, pravastatin, to determine if LDL subclass phenotypes, as determined by gradient gel electrophoresis, and HDL particles containing both apolipoprotein (apo) A-I and A-II, Lp(AI w AII), and those containing apo A-I but not A-II, Lp(AI w/o AII) are affected by pravastatin (10 mg daily). Twenty-four subjects with LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) > 160 mg/dl, triglyceride (TG) < 350 mg/dl and no recent myocardial infarction or secondary causes of hypercholesterolemia were enrolled. Compared with an age- and sex-matched normolipidemic reference group (controls), the hypercholesterolemic subjects had reduced levels of Lp(AI w/o AII) and increased levels of Lp(AI w AII) at baseline. In addition, both of their HDL subpopulations had significantly more small (7.0-8.2 nm) particles (P < 0.02 and 0.0001) but significantly fewer large (9.2-11.2 nm) particles (P < 0.002 and 0.0001). Pravastatin induced statistically significant (P < 0.001) reductions in plasma total C (15%), LDL-C (18%), and apo B (16%). While apo A-I and A-II levels increased 5% (P < 0.001) and 6% (P < 0.05), respectively, concentration, composition, and size abnormalities in Lp(AI w AII) and Lp(AI w/o AII) persisted. Lp(a), apo E and cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) levels also did not change. Although changes in LDL subclass phenotypes were observed, all changes involved the intermediate phenotype, and no significant changes in LDL peak particle diameter were seen in either group. Interrelationships between CETP, LDL subclass phenotypes and HDL subpopulations were also seen. Conclusions: Although pravastatin decreased plasma apo B and LDL lipid concentrations, no major changes were seen in LDL subclass phenotypes or HDL subpopulations even in the presence of abnormalities associated with arteriosclerosis. Similarly, CETP, which is believed to play a role in HDL and LDL particle size distribution, did not change with pravastatin treatment. Further research is needed to determine the pathophysiological basis of abnormal HDL and LDL subclasses in hypercholesterolemia and explore methods of rectifying the abnormalities.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8262165
We studied 56 patients affected by primary hypercholesterolemia treated with placebo for 1 month and with simvastatin (20 mg/day) or pravastatin (20 mg/day) for 6 months during a double-blind clinical trial. At 1-month intervals we determined the following parameters in the serum: total and HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and apolipoprotein A-1 and B. At the same time intervals we also determined the cholesterol and phospholipid concentration, the Na+/K+ ATPase activity, and the fluidity of erythrocyte membranes. Our results demonstrated the following modifications in the erythrocyte membranes during simvastatin and pravastatin treatments: (1) an initial increase in cholesterol concentration and in cholesterol/phospholipid molar ratio, with a significant decrease only after 4 months; (2) a similar behavior of membrane fluidity, with an initial decrease and an elevation after 4 months; (3) an increase in the Na+/K+ ATPase activity only after 4 months. We hypothesize that simvastatin and pravastatin not only inhibit the hepatic synthesis of cholesterol, but also modify the cholesterol exchange between plasma and the erythrocyte membrane.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8264145
Experimental evidence suggests that lipid lowering therapy could slow the progression of renal disease in humans. We have conducted a double-blind, placebo controlled trial of the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor simvastatin in patients with the nephrotic syndrome or significant proteinuria (> 1 g/day) and hypercholesterolemia (> or = 6.5 mmol/liter). Patients were placed on a lipid lowering diet for at least 10 weeks before randomization. After a four-week placebo run-in, 30 adults were randomized to simvastatin or placebo therapy (10 mg/day, increasing to 20 to 40 mg/day as required) for 24 weeks. There were seven dropouts, none of whom were "definitely" related to drug therapy. Total and LDL cholesterol levels fell by a mean of 33 and 31%, respectively, in simvastatin treated patients, compared with only 5 and 1% in patients on placebo (P < 0.001, P = 0.002, respectively). Apolipoprotein B100 levels fell by a mean of 31% in the simvastatin group but rose 0.3% in the placebo group (P = 0.014). There were no significant changes in HDL levels. There were no significant differences between the groups in their urine protein levels, their rise in plasma creatinine, or decline in plasma inulin clearance. Simvastatin is a safe, effective therapy for hypercholesterolemia in proteinuric states. A much larger trial is needed to show if potent lipid-lowering therapy slows progression of hypercholesterolemic proteinuric diseases.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8267492
The lipoprotein responses to conventional lipid-modifying drugs have not been adequately evaluated in normolipidemic patients with hypoalphalipoproteinemia (low levels of high-density lipoproteins). The purpose of this study was to compare responses to lovastatin, gemfibrozil, and nicotinic acid in such patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8269217
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8269456
Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a refractory liver disease for which no medical treatment has been established. The investigators administered 20 mg/day of pravastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, to 2 PBC patients with hypercholesterolemia (1010 and 306 mg/dl) for 3 years and 10 months in order to decrease the blood concentration of bile acids and prevent adverse effects on the hepatocellular membrane. The drug markedly decreased not only cholesterol levels but also total bile acid levels, producing particularly pronounced decreases in cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid. Histologically, progression was inhibited in one patient, whereas improvement was seen in the other. Bile duct enzymes and other biochemical parameters showed improvement in both cases. General pruritus and blepharal and palmar xanthoma also improved. These findings suggest that pravastatin may be useful in the treatment of PBC associated with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8276043
The objective of the study was to compare compliance with and the hypocholesterolaemic effect of lovastatin given once daily as a morning or an evening dose. Twenty-four out-patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia were randomly assigned to receive placebo first, then lovastatin 20 mg, to be taken once daily for 4 weeks, either with the breakfast or evening meal, in a single-blind fashion. Drug compliance was assessed by pill counts and continuous electronic monitoring. Two compliance parameters were evaluated, consumption, defined as percentage of prescribed doses taken, and time compliance, the percentage of total dosing events recorded within defined intervals (6.00-10.00 h, and 17.00-21.00 h), for the morning and evening regimes. Both regimes satisfactorily reduced the total and LDL-cholesterol concentrations, and there was no significant difference in the extent of the reductions. Pill counts overestimated compliance, as revealed by the monitoring method. The times of actual consumption of doses by the patients often differed from that prescribed, predominantly in patients who were told to take the evening dose. Partial time compliance may have confounded the efficacy of the drugs. Electronic compliance monitoring appears to be particularly useful in chronopharmacological studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8279377
Fourteen patients (5%) with an intermediate septal accessory pathway were identified among 283 consecutive patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome who had electrophysiologic study and radiofrequency ablation therapy. Nine were women and 5 were men (mean age 33 +/- 13 years). The resting electrocardiogram showed ventricular preexcitation in 8 patients and normal PR interval in 6. Anterograde and retrograde mapping studies revealed that the accessory pathway was para-Hisian in 11 patients and paranodal in 3. The accessory pathway was successfully ablated in 10 patients (9 para-Hisian and 1 paranodal) and damaged in 1 (para-Hisian). Treatment of 3 patients was complicated by transient atrioventricular (AV) block, of 1 by intermittent second-degree AV block, and of another by permanent complete AV block requiring implantation of a permanent pacemaker. Six patients underwent a follow-up electrophysiologic study 84 +/- 55 days after ablation; none had induction of tachycardia even after isoproterenol infusion. It is concluded that radiofrequency ablation therapy for intermediate septal accessory pathway is feasible. However, the success rate is only modest (71%), whereas complications with heart block (36%) or complete right bundle branch block (29%) are high. Thus, the procedure should be reserved for patients with life-threatening or troublesome symptomatic tachyarrhythmias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8279987
To compare the effects of simvastatin and bezafibrate on the lipid profile to attain the objectives proposed by National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8283930
The clinical trials and angiographic studies of cholesterol lowering have been of decisive importance in persuading scientific and public opinion that elevated serum cholesterol is a causal element in the chain of events leading to CHD and that treatment by diet and drugs is effective in lowering the risk of CHD. The appropriateness of these opinions is well illustrated by the analyses of the combined trials, which show that the clinical event rate can be lowered by about 20% if cholesterol levels are lowered by 10%. The reduced risk for CHD applies to both primary and secondary prevention. Further, the angiographic studies have now demonstrated that vigorous lipid-lowering therapy leads to improvements in the angiographic appearance of coronary vessels, which are accompanied by large reductions in CHD risk. Diet and a variety of drugs appear to modify the risk of CHD. The results of studies using combinations of drugs, for example, bile acid-binding resins with either niacin or hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, are particularly impressive. The primary purpose of treatment remains the reduction of total and LDL cholesterol; however, the possibility of an additional benefit from improving other aspects of the lipid profile (such as raising HDL cholesterol levels) at the same time should not be ignored. In many instances, combinations of drugs are needed to achieve optimal lowering of serum cholesterol or to treat all elements of the disorder. Although the treatment of high-risk but apparently healthy individuals should not be neglected, it would be particularly appropriate to institute intensive diet and combination drug therapy in patients with existing CHD, in view of their high risk of reinfarction if left untreated. The secondary prevention trials provide evidence that clinical events can be reduced in such patients. The angiographic studies strongly suggest that large reductions in cholesterol to much lower levels (in-treatment LDL cholesterol levels below 100 mg/dL were frequently observed) than those achieved in the secondary prevention trials markedly reduce the rate of coronary events in patients with existing disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8285861
To evaluate the effects of lovastatin as an hypocholesterolemic agent in non-insulin dependent diabetic (NIDDM) patients with high cholesterol plasma levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8287162
The Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), conducted at 22 clinical centers during the period 1980 to 1989, collected baseline data on C-peptide levels after ingestion of Sustacal in 582 patients with diabetes mellitus, prior to enrollment in the trial. Data on several clinical factors associated with diabetes were also collected from all 3711 enrolled patients. C-peptide data were used to develop sets of clinical criteria for the classification of ETDRS patients and to compare and contrast definitions of type of diabetes used in previous studies. The distribution of C-peptide levels was strikingly bimodal, suggesting a division of study participants into two groups--those with levels at 80 pmol/L or less and those with more than 80 pmol/L of C-peptide after Sustacal ingestion. Constellations of clinical characteristics that could serve as proxies for C-peptide level were ascertained. The result was two sets of clinically developed definitions for type of diabetes in the ETDRS. According to the more restrictive set of definitions, three groups were identified, compared to two groups using the "broad" set of definitions. Discriminant analysis was also used to classify ETDRS patients, yielding similar results. A comparison of definitions of type of diabetes used in the ETDRS and in previous studies revealed that even in the absence of C-peptide data, clinically derived definitions provided good discrimination between type I and type II diabetes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8287511
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8288727
Suppression of cholesterol synthesis by 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, such as lovastatin, has been shown to inhibit mitogen stimulated proliferation of natural killer (NK) cells and other lymphocytes in vitro. This effect is only partially overcome by provision of exogenous free or lipoprotein cholesterol but is reversed by mevalonate, suggesting that proliferating lymphocytes have a specific requirement for a nonsterol isoprenoid product of mevalonate. The effect of lovastatin (20 mg bid) on a range of immune function parameters was determined in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ex vivo study in 52 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. No significant differences (P < 0.05) were found between lovastatin and placebo groups for basal NK or interleukin-2 (IL-2)-induced cell-mediated cytotoxicity, PHA-stimulated lymphocyte proliferation, or relative numbers of T lymphocytes (CD3+), B lymphocytes (CD19+), total NK cells (CD3-, CD16+, CD56+) and CD57+ NK cells or in immunoglobulin levels after 4 or 8 weeks of treatment. In contrast to previous in vitro data, no statistically or clinically significant changes were observed in any parameter of lymphocyte function in patients treated with lovastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8290485
Seven sustained/controlled-release dosage forms were designed for gastrointestinal delivery of lovastatin or simvastatin, two potent HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. The in vivo performance of these formulations was evaluated in dogs and healthy volunteers in terms of the cholesterol lowering efficacy and/or systemic concentrations of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Results from the present and previous studies suggest that, through the controlled release of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, sustained lower plasma concentrations of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may result in an equal or better therapeutic efficacy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8295321
To determine the metabolic mechanisms underlying hypercholesterolemia in postmenopausal women and to determine whether a low dose of lovastatin will correct this abnormality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8296701
Treatment of patients with type IIA hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP) with pravastatin for 3 months led to significant decreases (p < 0.001) in total cholesterol (7.18 +/- 0.30 to 5.75 +/- 0.30 mmol/L), LDL cholesterol (5.56 +/- 0.33 to 4.02 +/- 0.32 mmol/L), and ratio of total cholesterol to HDL cholesterol (6.5 +/- 0.4 to 4.6 +/- 0.4). Decreases of a similar magnitude were also seen in patients with type IIB HLP. Plasma glucose and insulin concentrations after an oral glucose load and from 8 AM to 4PM in response to meals were higher in patients with Type IIB HLP, who also had higher steady-state plasma glucose concentrations after an infusion of somatostatin, insulin, and glucose (12.4 +/- 1 vs 5.5 +/- 0.8 mmol/L, p < 0.001). Because steady-state plasma insulin concentrations were similar in both groups, patients with type IIB HLP were relatively insulin resistant. Furthermore, day-long plasma glucose concentrations and insulin resistance were modestly, but significantly (p < 0.01), greater after treatment in both groups. In conclusion, LDL cholesterol metabolism improved in hypercholesterolemic subjects treated with pravastatin, but the hypertriglyceridemia, insulin resistance, relative glucose intolerance, and hyperinsulinemia present in patients with type IIB HLP either did not improve with treatment or was somewhat worse.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8297223
To analyze the response of hypercholesterolemic elderly patients to pravastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8301234
There is a presumed association between cellular cholesterol and sphingomyelin metabolism. To study this relationship in the intestine, the activity of the rate controlling enzyme of sphingolipid synthesis, serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT), and the biosynthesis of long-chain bases were characterized in cultured human intestinal cells, CaCo-2. Cells were then incubated with substances known to alter cholesterol biosynthesis, and the effect of these mediators on SPT activity and long-chain base synthesis was determined and compared with their effects on HMG-CoA reductase activity and cholesterol synthesis. The polar sterol, 25-hydroxycholesterol, the squalene epoxide inhibitor, U18666A, and the inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, lovastatin, all significantly inhibited the synthesis of cholesterol without altering either SPT activity or long-chain base synthesis. Mevalonate, which increased cholesterol production 3-fold, also had no affect on SPT activity or sphingoid base synthesis. Serine, which significantly increased the synthesis of long-chain bases, did not alter cholesterol biosynthesis. Moreover, the suicide inhibitors of SPT, beta-chloroalanine and cycloserine, did not alter cholesterol synthesis while markedly decreasing long chain base synthesis. Cells were incubated with palmitic, oleic, linoleic, and eicosapentaenoic acids. Only palmitic acid, the preferred substrate for SPT, increased the production of long-chain bases. Both palmitic and oleic acids, however, increased the synthesis of cholesterol. Cells enriched in sphingomyelin had higher rates of synthesis of both cholesterol and long-chain bases compared to their controls. In contrast, cholesterol and long-chain base syntheses were significantly decreased in cells enriched in cholesterol. Control cells incubated with phospholipid liposomes alone had higher rates of synthesis of both lipids.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8311595
Allograft coronary artery disease is a major threat to long-term survival after cardiac transplantation. It has been suggested that hyperlipidemia plays a major role in allograft coronary disease. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effect of a lipid-lowering intervention with diet and drug therapy after cardiac transplantation. Forty-six patients who underwent transplantation between 1988 and 1991 and who were treated with the American Heart Association phase 1 diet and an HMG coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (lovastatin or simvastatin) when low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were higher than 3.4 mmol/L were compared with 35 untreated patients having transplantation between 1983 and 1988. Annual coronary angiograms were obtained in both groups. Cholesterol, triglyceride, and low-density lipoprotein levels were significantly lower in the treated group. Actuarial survival and event-free survival (survival free from allograft coronary artery disease) were similar in both groups. Low-density lipoprotein levels lower than 3 mmol/L at the last follow-up had a positive effect on event-free survival. The cholesterol-lowering intervention was not effective in decreasing the prevalence of allograft coronary artery disease. This study suggests that more aggressive measures to lower low-density lipoprotein levels may be necessary to significantly affect allograft disease. Clinical trials should be developed to address this hypothesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8312683
To establish whether additional therapy with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG) coenzyme A (CoA) reductase inhibitors enhances the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowering effect of LDL apheresis with immunoadsorption in the treatment of patients with familial heterozygous hypercholesterolemia and coronary artery disease we studied eight patients initially on immunoadsorption therapy alone for 3 years. The adding of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors decreased pretreatment LDL cholesterol from 6.76 +/- 0.98 to 4.97 +/- 0.98 mmol/l and posttreatment LDL cholesterol from 2.33 +/- 0.80 to 1.94 +/- 0.67 mmol/l and increased pre- and posttreatment high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol by 0.08 and 0.13 mmol/l respectively. The LDL/HDL ratio was reduced from 4.0 to 2.8 (prior to any therapy the ratio was 13.4). The increase in LDL cholesterol between weekly treatments was less steep under the combined therapy. At the same time the treated plasma volume during LDL apheresis could be decreased from 5070 +/- 960 to 4370 +/- 1200 ml. We conclude that in patients with severe familial heterozygous hypercholesterolemia LDL apheresis should be combined with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8312689
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors reduce plasma cholesterol in different forms of hyperlipoproteinemia. Although an increase in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity is the proven mechanism of this therapy in familial hypercholesterolemia, the mechanism remains controversial in mixed hyperlipoproteinemia. A decreased production of apolipoprotein B (apoB) and/or an increased removal of lipoproteins could mediate the hypocholesterolemic effect of these drugs. The effect of pravastatin on the metabolism of apoB was evaluated in a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, cross-over study in five men with mixed hyperlipoproteinemia. Metabolic parameters for apoB were determined using endogenous labeling with [1-13C]leucine and [15N]glycine and multicompartmental modeling. During pravastatin therapy cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, apoB, and LDL apoB levels were significantly reduced (P < 0.01) by 18%, 20%, 27%, and 29%, respectively, while triglyceride and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels remained unchanged. Pravastatin therapy increased the fractional catabolic rate of very low density lipoprotein apoB from 3.9 +/- 0.6 to 5.1 +/- 1.7 per day (P = 0.08) and that of LDL apoB from 0.37 +/- 0.09 to 0.46 +/- 0.10 per day (P < 0.01). The apoB production (placebo 35.2 +/- 11.9 mg/kg per day; pravastatin 25.8 +/- 8.7 mg/kg per day) and conversion of very low density lipoprotein apoB to LDL apoB (placebo 65%, pravastatin 57%) remained stable. Thus, also in mixed hyperlipoproteinemia 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors increase the catabolism of apoB-containing lipoproteins without significantly affecting the production of apoB.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8520093
To evaluate the comparative efficacy and safety of the 4 currently available hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin, in the treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8520448
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8520845
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8520846
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8521762
Simvastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor used in the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolaemia. Since the time simvastatin was previously reviewed in Drugs, a number of large clinical trials have confirmed its clinical efficacy. Thus, reductions from baseline were approximately 20 to 40% for serum levels of total cholesterol, 35 to 45% for low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol and 10 to 20% for triglycerides in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia receiving simvastatin 10 to 40 mg/day. High density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels were increased modestly by about 5 to 15%. Recent data from long term studies indicate that little or no attenuation of these changes in serum lipid and lipoprotein levels occurred with administration of simvastatin for 3 to 5.4 years. Comparative studies with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (lovastatin, pravastatin and fluvastatin), which were lacking at the time of the previous review of simvastatin, demonstrated greater reductions in serum levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol with simvastatin than equal dosages of lovastatin or pravastatin. Reductions in serum levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol were similar between agents only when lovastatin or pravastatin were administered at a total daily dosage twice that of simvastatin and when fluvastatin was administered at a total daily dosage approximately 8 times that of simvastatin. In general, simvastatin 10 to 40 mg/day was also more effective than standard dosages of bile acid sequestrants, fibrates or probucol in lowering serum levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol; however, fibrates usually produced greater reductions in serum triglycerides and greater elevations in HDL-cholesterol levels. The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), a large secondary prevention study in patients with coronary heart disease and concomitant hypercholesterolaemia, demonstrated that simvastatin 20 to 40 mg/day for a median of 5.4 years significantly reduced overall mortality (the primary end-point of the study) by 30% compared with placebo, which was attributed to a 42% relative reduction in coronary mortality. Coronary morbidity was also significantly reduced by simvastatin in the 4S trial. The tolerability profile of simvastatin appears to be comparable to that of other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. The most frequently reported adverse events are gastrointestinal disturbances, which are generally mild and tend to occur less frequently than with cholestyramine. In conclusion, simvastatin is among the most effective agents available for treating patients with hypercholesterolaemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8529086
Patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) are obvious candidates for rehabilitation programs because of the potential for progression of disease. Such programs have been shown to foster risk-factor modification, improve quality of life, and prolong survival among post-myocardial infarction (MI) patients. However, the efficacy of these programs has not been established among patients who have undergone CABG.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8529087
This study was designed to assess the long-term effects of low-fat diet and intensive physical exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8530597
Secondary hypogonadism is not an infrequent abnormality in older patients presenting with the primary complaint of erectile dysfunction. Because of the role of testosterone in mediating sexual desire and erectile function in men, these patients are usually treated with exogenous testosterone, which, while elevating the circulating androgens, suppresses gonadotropins from the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. The response of this form of therapy, although extolled in the lay literature, has usually not been effective in restoring or even improving sexual function. This failure of response could be the result of suppression of gonadotropins or the lack of a cause and effect relationship between sexual function and circulating androgens in this group of patients. Further, because exogenous testosterone can potentially increase the risk of prostate disease, it is important to be sure of the benefit sought, i.e. an increase in sexual function. In an attempt to answer this question, we measured the hormone levels and studied the sexual function in 17 patients with erectile dysfunction who were found to have secondary hypogonadism. This double blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study consisted of treatment with clomiphene citrate and a placebo for 2 months each. Similar to our previous observations, LH, FSH, and total and free testosterone levels showed a significant elevation in response to clomiphene citrate over the response to placebo. However, sexual function, as monitored by questionnaires and nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity testing, did not improve except for some limited parameters in younger and healthier men. The results confirmed that there can be a functional secondary hypogonadism in men on an out-patient basis, but correlation of the hormonal status does not universally reverse the associated erectile dysfunction to normal, thus requiring closer scrutiny of claims of cause and effect relationships between hypogonadism and erectile dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8531288
To review the findings and implications of studies of rodent carcinogenicity of lipid-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8531308
To assess the lipid-lowering effect of atorvastatin (a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A [HMG-CoA] reductase inhibitor) on levels of serum triglycerides and other lipoprotein fractions in patients with primary hypertriglyceridemia, determine if atorvastatin causes a redistribution of triglycerides in various lipoprotein fractions, and assess its safety by reporting adverse events and clinical laboratory measurements.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8534671
A detailed assessment of ophthalmic effects of an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, simvastatin, was performed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8538301
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8538331
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8540464
This study demonstrated that pravastatin 20 mg once daily significantly lowered total cholesterol (by 19%) and LDL cholesterol by 25%.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8540887
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8543958
Computerised record linkage systems have great potential for enhancing or even replacing traditional methods of adverse event reporting based on active patient follow-up, both in clinical trials and in epidemiological studies. However, these methods must be evaluated. The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) is a randomised double-blind clinical trial of pravastatin versus placebo in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease, with coronary heart disease death plus nonfatal myocardial infarction as its primary end point. Adverse event reporting is based on active patient follow-up at routine trial visits. In parallel with this approach, we have obtained computer records of all deaths, incident cancers, and hospitalisations for our subjects by linking their names, dates of birth, and postcodes of their home addresses with a Scottish national database operated by the Scottish Record Linkage system. The results of this comparative study, based on follow-up of the 6595 men ages 45-64 randomised in WOSCOPS, demonstrate minor flaws in both systems, show that follow-up based on computerised linkage alone can be as effective as reporting based on direct contact with the patients, and show that a system based on both approaches provides a direct cross-validation of the two approaches to adverse event reporting while minimising the frequency of unreported events. Preliminary results are reported for a prospective epidemiological study of 80,184 men, ages 45-64 years, who were screened for coronary heart disease risk factors as part of WOSCOPS. This study is based solely on computerised linkage reporting of events on these subjects. This provides an indication of the number of events in various categories that will be available for analysis in future reports. The associations between death rates and standard risk factors such as age, blood pressure, total cholesterol level, and smoking status mirror those reported in other studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8546093
Within the Lovastatin Restenosis Trial, restenosis has been clearly shown to increase resource utilization and costs. While it is not possible to generalize these results to other patient populations, it is clear that successful efforts to decrease restenosis will certainly improve efficacy while decreasing follow-up costs and increasing the cost-effectiveness of intervention in the coronaries.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8546123
Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] is a genetically determined risk factor for atherosclerotic vascular disease. Several studies have described a correlation between high Lp(a) plasma levels and coronary heart disease, stroke, and peripheral atherosclerosis. In healthy individuals Lp(a) plasma concentrations are almost exclusively controlled by the apolipoprotein(a) [apo(a)] gene locus on chromosome 6q2.6-q2.7. More than 30 alleles at this highly polymorphic gene locus determine a size polymorphism of apo(a). There exists an inverse correlation between the size (molecular weight) of apo(a) isoforms and Lp(a) plasma concentrations. Average Lp(a) levels are high in individuals with low molecular weight isoforms and low in those with high molecular weight isoforms. Mean Lp(a) plasma levels are elevated over controls in patients with renal disease. Patients with nephrotic syndrome exhibit excessively high Lp(a) plasma concentrations, which can be reduced with antiproteinuric treatment. The mechanism underlying this elevation is unclear, but the general increase in protein synthesis caused by the liver due to high urinary protein loss is a likely explanation. Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) also have elevated Lp(a) levels. These are even higher in patients treated by continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis than in those receiving hemodialysis. Lipoprotein(a) concentrations decrease to values observed in controls matched for apo(a) type following renal transplantation. This clearly demonstrates the nongenetic origin of Lp(a) elevation in ESRD. Both the increase in ESRD and the decrease following renal transplantation are apo(a) phenotype dependent. Only patients with high molecular weight phenotypes show the described changes in Lp(a) levels. In patients with low molecular weight types the Lp(a) concentrations remain unchanged during both phases of renal disease. As in the general population, Lp(a) is a risk factor for cardiovascular events in ESRD patients. In this patient group the apo(a) phenotype seems to be equally or better predictive of the degree of atherosclerosis than is Lp(a) concentration. Further prospective studies will be necessary to confirm these observations. Whether Lp(a) also plays a key role in the pathogenesis and progression of renal diseases needs further study. Controversial data on the role of the kidney in Lp(a) metabolism result from insufficient sample sizes of several studies. Due to the broad range and skewed distribution of Lp(a) plasma concentrations, large study groups must be investigated to obtain reliable results.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8547405
This review deals with anticancer drugs with activity against signaling targets that have been studied in cancer patients. The major categories of drugs studied so far are modulators of the activity of protein kinase C, inhibitors of protein kinase A, protein tyrosine kinase, and receptor-operated Ca2+ channels. Drugs that may modulate ras function have also been studied. None of the agents have yet received extensive clinical trials. Toxicities and anecdotal cases of antitumor activity have been reported. There are a number of other anticancer drugs with activity against signaling targets awaiting clinical trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8549941
Although the effects of 3-hydroxy, 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors and bile acid sequestrants on bile lipid composition have been studied separately, no data are available on combination therapy of these drugs. Moreover, the effects of prolonged (four weeks) administration of these drugs on gall bladder motility, an important determinant of cholesterol gall stone formation, have not been studied so far. A prospective study was therefore performed with eight patients who had hypercholesterolaemia (age 53 (5) (SEM), body mass index 27.4 (1.1) kg m-2, low density lipoprotein cholesterol 5.9 (0.3) mmol/l). They received treatment during three periods of four weeks with simvastatin 20 mg/day, cholestyramine 4 g twice daily, and a combination of both in random order, each treatment period separated by a two week wash out period. Before treatment and after each treatment period, postprandial gall bladder motility was studied with ultrasound, followed by duodenal bile sampling. Serum cholesterol decreased in all subjects in any treatment period illustrating good compliance. Molar percentages in duodenal bile of cholesterol, phospholipids, and bile salts were unchanged during simvastatin and cholestyramine treatment. During combined therapy percentage bile salts was lower (72.5 (2.9)% v 77.8 (1.7)% at baseline, p < 0.05) whereas phospholipids were higher (21.2 (2.4)% v 16.4 (1.3)% at baseline, p < 0.05). As a result cholesterol saturation index (CSI) did not change in any treatment period. No cholesterol crystals were detected in any bile sample, taken at baseline and after each treatment period. Bile salt hydrophobicity index during cholestyramine (0.19 (0.02)) and combined treatment (0.22 (0.01)) decreased strongly compared with baseline (0.34 (0.01), p < 0.001, p < 0.01, respectively), resulting from increased proportions of glycocholate (59.4 (3.9)% (cholestyramine), 55.6 (2.4)% (combination), and 28.2 (2.2) (baseline), p < 0.001)) and decreased proportions of deoxycholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid. Fasting gall bladder volume was increased during simvastatin (28.7 (2.8) ml) v baseline (23.2 (2.3) ml, p < 0.01) whereas, residual volume did not differ (5.7 (0.9) ml (simvastatin) v 5.9 (0.7) (baseline). During cholestyramine and combined treatment, no significant differences in gall bladder motility were seen. In conclusion, this study suggests that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors alone and combined with cholestyramine do not affect major determinants of cholesterol gall stone formation, for example, CSI and gall bladder emptying. In addition cholestyramine alone and combined with simvastatin leads to a strong decrease of bile salt hydrophobicity, which may be beneficial in the prevention of nucleation of cholesterol crystals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8554498
To evaluate the effects of gemfibrozil and pravastatin in coronary artery disease patients with HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) < 35 mg/dl).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8554733
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of low dose (10 mg) pravastatin in hypercholesterolemic, hypertensive elderly subjects undergoing antihypertensive treatment, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 6-month trial was conducted. The subjects had a total plasma cholesterol of at least 250 mg/dL and had been, for at least 3 months, consuming a standard lipid-lowering diet (American Heart Association Step 1 Diet). Sixty elderly hypertensive patients randomly received placebo (n = 30) or pravastatin (n = 30) treatment. The dosage consisted of 10 mg of pravastatin daily during the 6-month trial. Over that period, in the pravastatin group, plasma levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol significantly (P < .01) dropped (-20% and -25%, respectively) compared to the placebo group. The plasma level of HDL-cholesterol increased (+5%) while triglycerides slightly decreased (-8%) (P < .05). No serious side effects occurred, and pravastatin was generally tolerated. Fasting hyperinsulinemia (11.0 +/- 0.8 v 9.3 +/- 0.7 microU/mL; P = .06) also improved, although not significantly, after 6 months of pravastatin therapy. Results from this study confirmed that a low dose (10 mg) of pravastatin daily is a safe and effective method of reducing plasma total and LDL-cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic, hypertensive elderly patients who are on concurrent antihypertensive drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8556689
Atherosclerosis is the leading cause of coronary heart disease among older persons. With an increasing elderly population, cardiovascular disease has become an urgent public health concern. Diet plays an important role in atherogenesis with known beneficial effects on major risk factors among the younger population--cholesterol, hypertension, and diabetes. Intervention studies are needed to establish the benefits of diet therapy in the elderly segment of the population. Efforts are also needed to educate the elderly and health professionals about the benefits of a healthy Step I diet.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8560901
The efficacy, tolerability and safety of simvastatin was compared to that of bezafibrate in a randomized placebo controlled double-blind trial including 64 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia with total cholesterol levels above 240 mg/dl and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol above 195 mg/dl. During a placebo period of four weeks patients were counselled for a diet low in cholesterol (< 300 mg/day) and saturated fat (< 10% of calories). This period was also used for randomization of the individuals into the bezafibrate and simvastatin group, respectively. Patients assigned to bezafibrate treatment took bezafibrate at 600 mg/day throughout the entire 12 weeks of active treatment. Patients assigned to simvastatin took simvastatin at 10 mg/day when LDL-cholesterol was below 195 mg/dl, and at 20 mg/day when LDL-cholesterol was above 195 mg. To compare the lipid lowering effect of both substances total cholesterol, LDL- and high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol were measured as well as triglycerides, very low density lipoprotein (VLDL)-cholesterol and the concentrations of apolipoproteins (apo)-AI, apo-AII and apo-B, respectively. These variables were compared between the two study groups with respect to the percentage change from baseline levels obtained during the placebo period. After a 12 week treatment period mean percent reduction of total cholesterol in the simvastatin group was 24% and that of LDL-cholesterol was 36%, both more pronounced than the respective reductions (14% and 17%) observed in the bezafibrate group. The mean percent increase in HDL-cholesterol was similar in both treatment groups (simvastation by 20% vs. bezafibrate by 17%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Abstract for pubmed ID 8564589
The value of mailed educational videotapes as a means of enhancing compliance with drug therapy was studied. Members of a health maintenance organization with a pharmacy claim for benazepril, metoprolol, simvastatin, or transdermal estrogen were randomly assigned to a study group or a control group. Subjects in the study group were mailed one of four videotape programs giving information on the drug prescribed and the inferred disease state. Control subjects received no educational materials. Subjects were enrolled from July 1, 1993, through January 2, 1994. Refill data were collected from July 1, 1993, through April 1, 1994. The medication possession ratio (MPR) was calculated as the total number of days' supply of a drug obtained by a member divided by the number of days between the time of enrollment and April 1, 1994, or the date the member was terminated from the plan. A subject was deemed compliant if his or her MPR was > or = 0.80. There were no significant differences in mean MPRs between the study group (n = 1993) and the control group (n = 2253). None of the mean MPRs was > or = 0.80, although 44% of control subjects and 46% of study-group subjects were compliant. Of 97 respondents to a survey mailed to a randomly selected subset of the study group, almost 87% reported that they had viewed the videotapes, and of these subjects, about 88% said they found them very useful or somewhat useful. A one-time mailing of videotapes to patients, with no individual follow-up, did not increase compliance with the medications monitored.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8568017
To determine whether atorvastatin, a new HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, could be administered with food in Phase II and III clinical trials, a nonblind, randomized, two-way crossover study was conducted to assess the effect of food on rate and extent of atorvastatin absorption. Sixteen healthy volunteers received single 80-mg atorvastatin capsule doses on two occasions one week apart: once after an 8-hour overnight fast and once with a medium-fat breakfast. The single 80-mg atorvastatin capsule doses were well-tolerated. Mean maximum plasma atorvastatin equivalent concentration (Cmax) and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) values with food were 47.9% and 12.7% lower, respectively, than without food. Mean time of maximum observed concentration (tmax) and elimination half-life (t1/2) values were 5.9 and 32.0 hours, respectively, with food and 2.6 and 35.7 hours, respectively, without food. A medium-fat breakfast decreased the rate of atorvastatin absorption significantly, but had little impact on extent of drug absorption. Changes in rate of atorvastatin absorption are not expected to have a clinically significant effect, as subsequent multiple-dose clinical studies have shown that dose but not plasma atorvastatin concentration profiles correlates with lipid-lowering effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8570427
A validation study was conducted first to test assumptions about the effect of saturated and unsaturated dietary fat supplements. The second study was conducted to determine the effect on blood cholesterol levels of saturated and unsaturated fat supplements in patients who followed a low-fat diet and were administered lovastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8571098
An overview of the 17 completed randomised trials of antihypertensive treatment demonstrates that a 5-6 mm Hg reduction in DBP reduced stroke risk by 38% (SD 4) and CHD risk by 16% (SD 4). These results indicate that a few years' treatment with diuretic- or beta-blocker-based therapy produces most or all of the long-term stroke avoidance and much of the long-term CHD avoidance that would be predicted from observational epidemiological studies, given the blood pressure reductions that were achieved in the trials. The relative risk reductions were similar in trials of older and younger patients, although the absolute reduction in events was more than twice as great in the trials in older patients. From these results it can be estimated that in fully compliant patients at similar risk of vascular disease to those included in the trials, antihypertensive treatment for 5 years would prevent one major vascular event among every 20 older patients and one major vascular event among every 60 younger patients. Obviously the benefits of treatment will be greater among those at higher risk than the patients included in the previous trials. The greatest benefits are likely to be achieved in those with a history of vascular disease since their risk of future events is particularly high. Among such patients it is possible that blood pressure reduction will confer worthwhile benefits in those without hypertension, as well as those with hypertension. It is also possible that the benefits of treatment will be determined by the size of the blood pressure reduction and by the choice of the anti-hypertensive agent. However, each of these possibilities requires confirmation in large scale randomised controlled trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8575912
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8580613
Previous algorithms regarding treatment of children with dyslipidaemia do not distinguish sufficiently between children at very high risk for cardiovascular disease and those with less exceptional risk. We propose that physicians assess risk, taking into consideration the nature of the genetic disorder, the severity of hypercholesterolaemia and the family history. Screening should be limited to children with suspected familial hypercholesterolaemia. Guidelines for individualized dietary and drug therapy are suggested.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8584066
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8585875
Aim of this study is to point out a correct therapy for the treatment of poligenic hypercholesterolemia resistant to dietetic treatment. There have been studied 40 patients which, after repeated haematochemical controls, resulted affected by dyslipidaemia with prevalent increase of the cholesterol levels. After 30 days of standard hypo-caloric dietetic treatment were enrolled 23 patients, 13 males and 10 females, who presented a plasmatic cholesterol level superior to 250 mg% and LDL superior to 160 mg%. All the patients continued the dietetic treatment; 10 patients began pravastatin therapy at a dose of 20 mg/die while to the rest of them was given placebo. The 30th, 60th, 120th day were controlled the following haematochemical parameters: lipidic frame haematology, hepatic and renal function, glycemia and CPK. After 4 months of treatment the average plasmatic levels of cholesterol resulted different in the two groups: mg% (p < 0.001) in the pravastatin group and 262 mg% (P = ns) in the control group. Then, the pravastatin therapy was suspended and all 23 patients continued for 30 days, dietetic treatment and placebo. After 6 months a new control of the lipidic frame was performed. Our results showed that the hypocholesterolic therapy must be continued for ever. In fact, the suspension of the treatment is followed by an immediate rebound of the dislipidaemia which plasmatic cholesterol levels even superior to the basic levels with probable negative repercussion on the cardiovascular system.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8590530
Five multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies were conducted in France to compare the efficacy and safety of once-daily simvastatin treatment (10-40 mg/day) with conventional therapy with gemfibrozil 900 mg/day, ciprofibrate 100 mg/day, bezafibrate 400 mg/day, and fenofibrate 300 or 400 mg/day in a total of 800 patients with hypercholesterolemia. Simvastatin was associated with statistically significantly greater (p < or = 0.01) mean percent reductions in plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol compared with each of the five fibrate regimens, even when administered at its recommended starting dose of 10 mg/day. Furthermore, approximately 90% of patients treated once daily with simvastatin experienced an at least 20% decrease in plasma LDL cholesterol compared with only 36 to 68% of patients treated with the individual fibrate agents (p < or = 0.05). The effectiveness of simvastatin in reducing LDL cholesterol did not differ as a function of the baseline plasma concentrations of total cholesterol or triglycerides. In contrast, the effectiveness of fibrate therapy in lowering plasma LDL cholesterol levels was significantly diminished (p < or = 0.05) among patients with triglyceride concentrations > 1.7 mmol/l. Plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels were increased by approximately 10% after treatment with simvastatin or the fibrates. Although fibrate therapy was more effective overall in lowering plasma triglyceride levels, the effectiveness of simvastatin in reducing plasma triglyceride levels was generally 2- to 4-fold greater in patients with hypercholesterolemia associated with triglyceride levels > or = 2.3 mmol/l than in those with hypercholesterolemia associated with triglyceride levels < 2.3 mmol/l. The results of these studies confirm the superiority of simvastatin to standard fibrate therapy in reducing plasma levels of total and LDL cholesterol. They further indicate that once-daily treatment with simvastatin is effective in patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia or hypercholesterolemia associated with elevated triglyceride levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8595642
Hyperlipidemia associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and insulin resistance is characterized by high triglyceride levels; raised levels of total low-density lipoprotein (LDL), which is made up of small, dense, cholesterol-rich particles; low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL); and glycosylation of apolipoproteins. Optimal drug therapy for this lipid profile is controversial. To test whether a fibrinic acid derivative (gemfibrozil) or a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (lovastatin) would produce better results in these patients, a crossover study was performed. Gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily and, after a washout period, lovastatin 20 to 40 mg twice daily were administered to nine patients with NIDDM. Gemfibrozil significantly decreased triglyceride, very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), and intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL) levels, the total cholesterol:HDL ratio, and the IDL plus VLDL;HDL ratio, and significantly increased levels of HDL, HDL2, and HDL3. Lovastatin significantly decreased levels of total cholesterol, calculated LDL, directly measured LDL, IDL, total triglycerides, VLDL, and the ratios of LDL:HDL, total cholesterol:HDL, and directly measured LDL:HDL and significantly increased total HDL and HDL3 levels. Gemfibrozil was significantly more effective than lovastatin in raising total HDL and HDL3 levels and in lowering the IDL plus VLDL:HDL ratio. Lovastatin was significantly more effective than gemfibrozil in lowering total cholesterol, LDL, directly measured LDL, and the LDL:HDL and directly measured LDL:HDL ratios. In the absence of malignant hypertriglyceridemia, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, rather than a fibrinic acid derivative, is indicated for the treatment of patients with dyslipidemia associated with NIDDM and insulin resistance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8597317
To assess the effects of lipid-lowering therapy on the progression of early, preintrusive carotid arterial atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8602715
To assess the role of serum lipid levels as screening tests in adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8604188
To evaluate apparent discontinuation rates in patients newly prescribed lipid-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8609365
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8610621
Combination lovastatin and probucol reduced total cholesterol (27%) and low-density lipoprotein levels (30%), but did not prevent restenosis or clinical events during the first 6 months after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8610922
The National Cholesterol Education Program recommends reducing total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels to decrease the risk for coronary heart disease. The available evidence clearly indicates that higher cholesterol levels increase the risk for coronary heart disease and that cholesterol reduction results in corresponding decreases in risk. In contrast, existing data do not strongly support the idea that cholesterol reduction causes increases in any specific nonvascular cause of death. The outcomes of ongoing, large-scale trials will enable existing guidelines to be refined. However, current recommendations, which encourage nonpharmacologic interventions for about 30% of U.S. adults and cholesterol-reducing drugs for about 7% of U.S. adults, seem both justified and warranted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8614809
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8615304
Optimal drug therapy for patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is well described in the medical literature. However, data on the actual pharmacologic management of patients surviving AMI at academic hospitals is unavailable. The purpose of this study was to document treatment profiles in 500 patients surviving AMI at 12 academic hospitals in the United States. These profiles were compared with established guidelines and were evaluated for trends. Overall, thrombolytics (streptokinase > or = tissue-type plasminogen activator) were administered in 29% of the patients, with a greater proportion of patients receiving beta-blockers than calcium channel antagonists in the initial 72 hours (61% vs 40%; p < 0.005) and at discharge (51% vs 35%; p < 0.005). Further, women were less likely than men to receive thrombolytic therapy (odds ratio [OR] = 0.61; confidence interval [CI], 0.54 to 0.69) or beta-blocker therapy within the first 72 hours (OR = 0.61; CI, 0.55 to 0.67) or at hospital discharge (OR = 0.53; CI, 0.48 to 0.58). Overall, improvements could still be made in the number of patients who receive thrombolytic and acute and chronic beta-blocker therapies after AMI, particularly in women. Changes in treatment profiles may be a reflection of the publication of large clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8615705
The 1988 US National Cholesterol Education Program Expert Panel Report recommended initial treatment with niacin or bile acid sequestrants, followed by other agents if needed, to lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in hypercholesterolemic patients who require drug therapy. It is unknown how the effectiveness and costs of such an approach ("stepped care") compare in typical clinical practice to those of initial therapy with lovastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8616937
Progression of coronary artery disease is assumed to be a surrogate end point for clinical coronary events. Because no single method or measure for a coronary angiographic end point is uniformly accepted as optimal, the utility and validity of surrogate end points for predicting clinical coronary events remain unsettled.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8618353
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8623732
Quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) has become an important tool for evaluating coronary angiograms. Many methodologic factors, such as the choice of frame to analyze, the selection of the "normal," segment and the method of edge detection used may affect the results of QCA. The sequential steps in performing QCA, including a comparison of visual and automated edge-detection methodologies, were evaluated using 12 precision-drilled phantoms and 20 patient films. Normal diameter, minimal lumen diameter, and diameter stenosis were measured. In the phantom studies, the measurements from both visual and automated systems correlated well with the true measurements of the phantoms and between systems (all r values >0.92). To study the difference between methodologies on QCA results as influenced by the choice of frame and normal segment analyzed, the patient films were analyzed independently in 3 separate rounds of interpretation. In round 1, each system's operator individually chose frames and normal segments for analysis. In round 2, both systems analyzed the same preselected frames, but independently chose normal segments. In round 3, both systems analyzed the same preselected normal segments and frames. The intersystem correlations between visual and automatic systems for rounds 1, 2, and 3 were: normal diameter, r = 0.25, r = 0.37, and r = 0.75, respectively; minimal lumen diameter, r = 0.79, r = 0.86, and r = 0.85, respectively; and diameter stenosis, r = 0.65, r = 0.73, and r = 0.87, respectively. The manual edge-detection and automated edge-detection systems used in this study are reasonably accurate and consistent on phantom studies. In patient studies, the nonautomated processes (choice of frame and normal segment for analysis) produced significant differences in the QCA results, thus illustrating that operator-dependent factors other than edge detection are very important in QCA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8626228
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8628597
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), an inherited autosomal dominant disorder of lipoprotein metabolism, is associated with premature atherosclerosis. The recommended pediatric therapy consists of dietary intervention and, when necessary, treatment with bile acid-binding resins. However, compliance has been poor in many children. Therefore, our objectives were to determine the efficacy, safety, and tolerance of the short-term use of lovastatin, a 3-hydroxy 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, in the control of severe FH in a male pediatric population and to evaluate the dose-response relationship.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8629587
This multicenter study compared the effects of lovastatin (40 mg) and pravastatin (40 mg) on quality of life. Men, aged 20 to 65 years old, with primary hypercholesterolemia (types IIa and IIb) were eligible for enrollment if baseline low-density lipoprotein cholesterol met the first National Cholesterol Education Program adult treatment guidelines. Eligible patients were enrolled into a 6-week diet baseline period, followed by a 6-week diet-plus-placebo period. Patients whose low-density lipoprotein cholesterol still met National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines for drug therapy were randomized into the double-blind, active-treatment period to receive either lovastatin 40 mg or pravastatin 40 mg/day for 12 weeks. Clinic visits were scheduled every 4 weeks and included complete serum lipid profiles, monitoring of adverse experiences, and patient completion of health-related quality-of-life questionnaires. The primary end point of the study was the change in quality of life, as measured by the Nottingham Health Profile (part 1) after 12 weeks of treatment. Secondary end points included responses to a general health question from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, sexual function questions from the Medical Outcomes Study, and stress/life event questions from the National Institutes of Health Post-Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Study. No significant differences between the 2 groups were observed in tolerability, health-related quality-of-life measures, or changes in lipid profiles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8629655
To determine the extent that goal lipid levels derived from the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) are achievable in clinical practice, and to identify factors associated with the achievement of these goals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8633373
Hyperlipidemia is an important complication of kidney transplantation affecting up to 74% of recipients. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are reported to provide safe and effective treatment for this problem. A recent study suggests that pravastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, also decreases the incidence of both clinically severe acute rejection episodes and natural killer cell cytotoxicity after orthotopic heart transplantation. We have performed a prospective randomized pilot study of the effect of pravastatin on these same parameters after cadaveric kidney transplantation. Graft recipients were randomized to receive pravastatin after transplantation or no pravastatin (24 patients in each group) in addition to routine cyclosporine and prednisone immunosuppression. Lipid levels, acute rejection episodes and serial natural killer cell cytotoxicities were followed for 4 months after the transplant. At the end of the study period, pravastatin had successfully controlled mean total cholesterol levels (202.6 +/- 9.3 vs. 236.5 +/- 11.9 mg/dl, P < 0.02), LDL levels (107.9 +/- 6.6 vs.149.6 +/- 10.7 mg/dl, P < 0.002), and triglyceride levels (118.8 +/- 14.2 vs. 157.2 +/- 13.8 mg/dl, P < 0.05). In addition, the pravastatin-treated group experienced a reduction in the incidence of biopsy-proven acute rejection episodes (25% vs. 58%, P = 0.01), the incidence of multiple rejections episodes (P < 0.05), and the use of both pulse methylprednisolone (P = 0.01) and OKT3 (P = 0.02). Mean natural killer cell cytotoxicity was similarly reduced (11.3 +/- 1.6 vs. 20.0 +/- 2.0% lysis of K562 target cells, P < 0.002). These data suggest that pravastatin exerts an additional immunosuppressive effect in kidney transplant recipients treated with cyclosporine-based immunosuppression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8635258
Advances in the treatment of cardiovascular disease have increased costs; annual cardiovascular healthcare expenditure in the United States currently exceeds $100 billion. Physicians and third-party payers need to assess the economic impact of treatments that reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8635262
Intensive lipid lowering may retard the progression of coronary atherosclerosis. LDL-apheresis has the potential to decrease LDL cholesterol to very low levels. To assess the effect of more aggressive lipid lowering with LDL-apheresis, we set up a randomized study in men with hypercholesterolemia and severe coronary atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8636668
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8637293
Primary health care physicians (PHCP) play a fundamental role in the detection and treatment of hyperlipemias in a general population. The aim of this study was to estimate the opinion of the PHCP in the Autonomic Community of La Rioja, Spain, regarding desirable lipemic values and treatment of hyperlipemias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8637349
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8639010
To evaluate, in the comprehensive scenario of "evidence-based" medicine, the transferability of the results of published randomized clinical trials and meta-analyses on cholesterol-lowering interventions to clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8641021
Increased expression of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) on the vascular endothelium has been postulated to play an important role in atherogenesis. Both in vitro and in vivo studies have suggested that dyslipidemia may increase expression of CAMs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8642715
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8642723
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8644987
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8650428
Familial hypercholesterolemia is associated with premature coronary heart disease. In patients with familial hypercholesterolemia, monotherapy with hydroxymethylglutaril coenzyme. A reductase inhibitors rarely achieves the goal of desirable low-density lipoprotein levels. Epidemiological studies suggest that populations with a high dietary intake of marine n3 fatty acids are protected against coronary heart disease. Hepatic synthesis and secretion of very low density lipoproteins are reduced during fish oil supplementation while other effects on lipid and lipoprotein metabolism are controversial. Fourteen patients affected by familial heterozygous hypercholesterolemia on chronic treatment with simvastatin were enrolled in a double blind, placebo controlled, randomized crossover trial that evaluated the effect of fish oil ethyl ester (Esapent, 5.1 g/day) on lipid and lipoprotein serum concentrations. Total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, apoprotein B, apoprotein AI, lipoprotein (a) did not show any significant variation during the four week treatment period with fish oil ethyl ester. The present data suggest that the possible favourable influence of fish oil on the progression of atherosclerosis in these high-risk patients might involve mechanisms which are different from lipid metabolism.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8650638
After the release of the results from the West of Scotland Prevention study (WOSCOPS) some questions have been raised with respect to validity of its finding on all cause mortality, which was reduced by 22% with pravastatin treatment (p = 0.051) compared with placebo. Also, since WOSCOPS was a primary preventive study its results could affect a large proportion of Norwegian men. Thus, it can also be asked whether statin treatment should be preferred to standard, specific treatment for certain diseases, e.g. hypertension, if economic restrictions by the government make it necessary to make priorities. For example, expensive drugs are now given free to many diabetics and hypertensives, who should probably be treated with statins, almost regardless of their cholesterol level. The total social costs of medication could then exceed accepted budgets and could lead to restrictions. The author discusses the validity of the WOSCOPS findings on all cause mortality, and compares the results obtained in this study with those randomised trials and other statin trials. Finally, a comparison is made between results from two metaanalyses: one of randomised hypertension trials and one of all randomised statin trials. It is concluded that more favourable results are obtained from the latter. Caution should be shown, however, when interpreting such a comparison.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8651835
Evidence supports the involvement of 2 common dyslipidemias---low high-density lipoprotein disorders and Lp(a) lipoprotein excess--in coronary heart disease. Until clinical trials determine whether specific therapeutic interventions can prevent the occurrence and recurrence of coronary heart disease in patients with these dyslipidemias, the implementation of cholesterol-lowering guidelines can provide a reasonable way to manage low high-density lipoprotein disorders and to identify specific categories of patients who may be at particularly high risk for premature coronary heart disease. Empiric treatment guidelines are suggested for low high-density lipoprotein disorders and Lp(a) lipoprotein excess in order to foster further discussion and validation by clinical trial data.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8653869
Oxidatively modified LDL has been shown to markedly impair endothelium-dependent dilation in experimental studies. The aim of the present study was to determine the relationship between the coronary vasomotor response to the endothelium-dependent agonist acetylcholine and the in vitro susceptibility of LDL to oxidation in patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8654109
We evaluated the ability of Lensmeter 701 (LOM) to detect changes in the transparency of the lens graded with the Lens Opacities Classification System II (LOCS II). In this prospective study 410 middle-aged Eastern Finnish men participating in the Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study were examined three times at eighteen month intervals, and lens opacities were graded with both LOM and LOCS II, the latter serving as the standard. Majority of the change in the LOM reading during the follow-up fell within the 95% tolerance interval of the apparatus (3.08 units). Only four eyes showing progression by LOCS II were detected by LOM. The association between LOM change and the change observed by LOCS II was not statistically significant, and the correspondence of the two methods was weak. It seems that the sensitivity of the LOM is not sufficient to detect small changes in the transparency of the lens over time.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8656168
Atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries is the most common cause of death in the United States for persons over the age of 45. Dyslipidemia is one of the risk factors for the development of coronary atherosclerosis. Recent studies suggest that treating dyslipidemia in persons with coronary atherosclerosis may decrease morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8658343
Inherited defects in enzymes of cholesterol metabolism and use of drugs which inhibit lens cholesterol biosynthesis can be associated with cataracts in animals and man. The basis of this relationship apparently lies in the need of the lens to satisfy its sustained requirement for cholesterol by on-site synthesis, and impairing this synthesis can lead to alteration of lens membrane structure. Lens membrane contains the highest cholesterol content of any known membrane. The Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, mevalonic aciduria, and cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis all involve mutations in enzymes of cholesterol metabolism, and affected patients can develop cataracts. Two established models of rodent cataracts are based on treatment with inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis. The long-term ocular safety of the very widely used vastatin class of hypocholesterolemic drugs is controversial. Some vastatins are potent inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis by animal lenses, can block cholesterol accumulation by these lenses and can produce cataracts in dogs. Whether these drugs inhibit cholesterol biosynthesis in human lenses at therapeutic doses is unknown. Results of clinical trials of 1-5 years duration in older patient populations indicate high ocular safety. However, considering the slow life-long growth of the lens and its continuing need for cholesterol, longterm safety of the vastatins should perhaps be viewed in units of 10 or 20 years, particularly with younger patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8663599
Two overlapping cDNAs which encode human liver phosphomevalonate kinase (PMKase) were isolated. The human PMKase cDNAs predict a 191-amino acid protein with a molecular weight of 21,862, consistent with previous reports for mammalian PMKase (Mr = 21,000-22,500). Further verification of the clones was obtained by expression of PMKase activity in bacteria using a composite 1024-base pair cDNA clone. Northern blot analysis of several human tissues revealed a doublet of transcripts at approximately 1 kilobase (kb) in heart, liver, skeletal muscle, kidney, and pancreas and lower but detectable transcript levels in brain, placenta, and lung. Analysis of transcripts from human lymphoblasts subcultured in lipid-depleted sera (LDS) and LDS supplemented with lovastatin indicated that PMKase gene expression is subject to regulation by sterol at the level of transcription. Southern blotting indicated that PMKase is a single copy gene covering less than 15 kb in the human genome. The human PMKase amino acid sequence contains a consensus peroxisomal targeting sequence (PTS-1), Ser-Arg-Leu, at the C terminus of the protein. This is the first report of a cholesterol biosynthetic protein which contains a consensus PTS-1, providing further evidence for the concept that early cholesterol and nonsterol isoprenoid biosynthesis may occur in the peroxisome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8667843
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8672984
Progress in development of a genetic model for colorectal tumorigenesis and human chemoprevention research may allow the mechanism-based identification of targets and chemopreventive agents that will protect against colorectal cancer. For example, numerous mutagenic events can occur throughout colorectal carcinogenesis, including loss of heterozygosity in tumor suppressor genes such as APC, MCC, DCC, and p53, as well as in oncogenes such as K-ras. Chemopreventive agents that inhibit mutagenic activity such as N-acetyl-l-cysteine, oltipraz, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may protect against these mutations. Also, agents such as perillyl alcohol and lovastatin that interfere with protein isoprenylation and, hence, inhibit oncogene activation may protect against aberrant K-ras expression. Hyperproliferation in normal mucosa, leading to growth and progression of neoplasia, are also aspects of colorectal carcinogenesis that can be controlled by chemopreventive agents. Calcium is a chemopreventive agent for which there is both clinical and experimental evidence of inhibition of cell proliferation in colon mucosa. Other examples of antiproliferative agents with potential chemopreventive efficacy in colon are 2-difluoromethylornithine, dehydroepiandrosterone, and selenium. Differentiating agents such as retinoids and deltanoids also may slow proliferation and progression. Antioxidants have potential for interfering with both mutagenicity and proliferation (e.g., by preventing oxidative activation of carcinogens and scavenging activated oxygen species generated during inflammation). The same mechanistic principles apply to identification of dietary chemopreventive intervention for colorectal carcinogenesis. For example, lowering dietary fat and increasing dietary fiber lead to lower colorectal mucosal proliferation, and cruciferous vegetables contain agents such as indoles and dithiolthiones that have shown antimutagenic activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8678079
To determine if patients treated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have their LDL cholesterol levels at or below the levels recommended by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) and if patients on these medications are monitored for potential toxicity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8678327
To determine the prevalence and correlates of symptomatic peripheral atherosclerosis in individuals with a history of myocardial infarction (MI) and cholesterol levels lower than 240 mg/dL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8686314
Four studies of the cost per life year saved through lipid lowering with lovastatin or simvastatin showed considerable variation in the results. For example, the cost per life year saved on administration of simvastatin 20 mg/day for primary prevention in men 42 years old at the start of therapy and with an initial cholesterol level of 8 mmol/L, was 19,000 1994-US dollars according to one study, and 55,000 according to another. Both when the differences were due to different cost estimates and when they were due to different estimates of the number of life years saved, plausible explanations for the discrepancies between the cost-effectiveness ratios were generally found. The cost per life year saved through primary prevention was about three times greater among women than men at age 40, twice greater at age 60, an 1.3 times greater at age 70. The accordance between the studies was not good regarding how cost per life year saved varies with age at the start of drug therapy. According to one study, the cost per life year saved for secondary prevention is generally low. We also compared the estimates for statins with estimates for several other life-extending health interventions. Given current guidelines for the prescription of cholesterol-lowering drugs, primary prevention with statins seems generally to be one of the less cost-effective life extending health interventions, especially for women. The cost effectiveness of statins is likely to become more favorable, though, when the patients on these drugs expire.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8686956
The aims of this study were to evaluate the influence of different coronary angiographic endpoints on the outcome of lipid intervention studies and to formulate a proposal for angiographic endpoint standardization. In recent angiographic intervention studies a confusing diversity in angiographic endpoints has been used to determine the outcome. In addition, differences in study populations (eg, bypass patients included or not) could influence results. This makes comparisons between studies cumbersome and raises the question to what extent the results of various studies may be subject to the selection of angiographic endpoints. The investigators compared three frequently used endpoints (mean segment diameter, minimum obstruction diameter, and % stenosis) in a group of 505 patients who had just finished a trial designed to assess the effect of cholesterol lowering by pravastatin. To exclude a potential bias this analysis was carried out at the time that the study was still blinded. They found poor intercorrelation coefficients for mean segment diameter calculated in different ways, ranging from 0.55 to 0.95, dependent on inclusion or exclusion of segments influenced by coronary angioplasty or bypass grafting and on whether or not a value of 0 was assumed for occluded segments and segments distal to occlusions. The correlation between mean segment diameter and minimum obstruction diameter was 0.79; between minimum obstruction diamete and % stenosis, 0.85; and between mean segment diameter and % stenosis, only 0.64. Different endpoints sometimes correlate poorly. This may lead to differences in results of angiographic intervention trials. The authors propose standardization by (1) using both mean sement diameter and minimum obstruction diameter as endpoints and (2) excluding from the primary analysis segments influenced by mechanical interventions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8688757
To evaluate the effects on mood of a substantial and prolonged reduction in total cholesterol concentration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8690811
The purpose of this review is to provide perspective on the developments leading to the recognition of high cholesterol levels as a risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). Another objective is to consider the unfolding controversies regarding the relative value of cholesterol-lowering drug therapy in primary and secondary prevention. Should physicians use lipid-lowering drugs to treat patients with elevated cholesterol levels but no clinical evidence of coronary disease, or limit intervention to patients with a previous history of angina, coronary angioplasty, coronary artery bypass surgery, or myocardial infarction? This review finds inadequate data to support a recommendation for screening large populations for the presence of elevated cholesterol levels or for primary prevention in those known to have high cholesterol. On the other hand, there is mounting evidence to support vigorous intervention in those with known coronary disease. Further study is needed to determine whether a subset of patients with one or more well-defined risk factors would benefit from primary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8690818
Atorvastatin is a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor that reduces plasma cholesterol by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis and increasing cellular uptake of low density lipoproteins. The effects of age and gender on the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin after administration of single 20-mg tablets of atorvastatin were studied in 16 young and 16 elderly volunteers (8 men and 8 women in each age group). Plasma equivalent concentrations of atorvastatin were quantitated by a validated enzyme inhibition bioassay. Atorvastatin was well tolerated by the participants. The equivalent maximum concentration (Cmax) of atorvastatin was 42.5% higher in elderly participants (age, 66-92 years) than in young participants (age, 19-35 years) and 17.6% higher in women than in men. In addition, mean area under the concentration-time curve (AUC0-infinity) and half-life (t1/2) were 27.3% greater and 36.2% longer, respectively, in elderly adults than in young adults and 11.3% lower and 19.9% shorter, respectively, in women than in men. Because the primary site of action for HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is the liver and atorvastatin is subject to extensive first-pass hepatic metabolism, it is unclear whether these age- and gender-related differences in the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin will be clinically important. Results of subsequent safety and efficacy trials should help clarify the clinical significance of these pharmacokinetic differences.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8706591
This article discusses various aspects of cholesterol-lowering therapy using the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor simvastatin in the light of the large Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S). In 4S, patients with proven coronary heart disease (CHD) and plasma total cholesterol > 5.5 mmol/L (212 mg/dl) despite dietary measures received statin therapy or placebo for > or = 5 years. A significant mortality reduction was accomplished in those receiving the statin. Moreover, a significant decrease of nonfatal myocardial infarction and requirement for coronary bypass surgery or angioplasty was demonstrated, which will contribute to the cost-effectiveness of this well tolerated therapy. Plaque stabilisation and improvement of endothelial function are thought to be mediators of this therapeutic success. Responsible drug prescription in the post-4S era may result in the recognition and treatment of more patients with CHD. This is likely to be more beneficial than exhaustive efforts to completely achieve the goals of the most strict guidelines in the individual patient. In patients who carry the highest absolute risk for a recurrent event, aggressive drug therapy may be most justified. Reluctance to initiate lipid lowering drug therapy in patients with proven CHD should now be disputed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8706596
Itraconazole is an orally administered triazole antifungal agent. Its spectrum of activity includes dermatophyte, dimorphic and dematiaceous fungi, yeasts, and some moulds. In clinical trials, mycological cure was attained in approximately 70 to 80, > or = 70 and > or = 80% of patients with, respectively, fingernail and toenail onychomycosis (200 mg/day for 3 months), dermatophytosis (100 mg/day for 2 to 4 weeks) and vaginal candidiasis (400 mg/day for 1 day or 200 mg/day for 3 days). Approximately 20 to 30% of patients with onychomycosis may relapse after completion of therapy; relapse rate data are limited for the other indications. Recently developed intermittent regimens of itraconazole (400 mg/day for 1 week per month for 3 to 4 months) appear to have similar efficacy to standard regimens in the treatment of onychomycosis. Shorter, higher dosage itraconazole treatment regimens (200 or 400 mg/day for 1 week) are also beneficial in dermatomycoses. Discrepancies and limitations of study design hamper conclusions about efficacy relative to other antifungal drugs. Newer intermittent and short course higher dosage itraconazole regimens have also not been evaluated in comparative studies. Available studies show that the efficacy of itraconazole appears to be greater than that of griseofulvin, but similar to or lower than that of terbinafine in patients with dermatophyte onychomycosis or cutaneous fungal infections. Moreover, the efficacy of itraconazole may be similar to or lower than that of fluconazole in the treatment of cutaneous mycoses. Comparative data from patients with acute vaginal candidiasis suggest that itraconazole is at least as effective as intravaginal clotrimazole and oral fluconazole, and superior to intravaginal econazole. These results require confirmation. Prescription-event monitoring data indicate that itraconazole is generally well tolerated. Gastrointestinal disturbances, dizziness and headache occur most commonly; liver toxicity has been rarely described. Its usefulness in some clinical situations may be limited because of its ability to interact with various therapeutic agents. In conclusion, itraconazole along with other established agents should be considered a first-line treatment for patients with extensive or recalcitrant cutaneous fungal infections, mixed dermatophyte and Candida onychomycosis or vaginal candidiasis. It is currently considered a second-line drug for dermatophyte onychomycosis; the use of newer intermittent itraconazole treatment regimens may, however, extend its role in the management of this condition. Although itraconazole offers greater benefit than conventional therapies (griseofulvin and ketoconazole) in terms of efficacy and tolerability, wider clinical experience is required to determine its merits relative to the newer agents, terbinafine and fluconazole.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8707385
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8708586
The objectives of the Cost Effectiveness of Lipid Lowering (CELL) study were twofold: (i) to evaluate the effect on overall cardiovascular risk of two types of health care advice ("usual' and "intensive') given in primary care, with or without pharmacological medication, with the target being to attain a moderate decrease in cholesterol; (ii) to evaluate the ritual of daily medication on compliance with the health care advice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8708587
To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of two types of advice (usual and intensive) to lower cardiovascular risk, with or without pharmacological medication aimed at lowering cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8712148
The relation between post-percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty (post-PTCA) and angiography indexes were investigated in the Lovastatin Restenosis Trial. Post-PTCA percent diameter measured by the operator was found to be a weak predictor of angiographic and clinical follow-up restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8713484
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8713485
Although several cholesterol-lowering interventions have reduced coronary heart disease (CHD) events in clinical trials, drug therapy for hypercholesterolaemia has not been as widely used as the US and European guidelines recommend, mainly because until recently there was insufficient clinical trial evidence for improved survival. The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) is the first trial of lipid-lowering therapy to demonstrate an unequivocal reduction in total mortality. Largely as a result of this study, there is now little disagreement on the necessity to reduce low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol effectively in hypercholesterolaemic patients with CHD. Many physicians believe it is also important to reduce elevated levels of LDL cholesterol in patients without overt coronary disease, but more clinical trial evidence will be required before this is universally accepted. Inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase are the most effective class of agents for this purpose, and have become widely used. It is likely that the magnitude of risk reduction produced by lipid-lowering therapy is proportional to the degree of cholesterol lowering achieved, which is an important consideration when selecting an agent and deciding the dosage to use. The results of several multicentre comparative trials have clearly established that the 4 members of the class are not all equipotent on a mg basis in terms of their effects on lowering LDL cholesterol. They have shown that the hypolipidaemic effect of simvastatin 5 mg approximately equals that of pravastatin 15 mg and lovastatin 15 mg and that of fluvastatin 40 mg, all given once daily. The tolerability profiles of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are excellent. Five-year data are available for simvastatin and lovastatin, and to date there is no good evidence for important differences in safety or tolerability among the class.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8718452
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8719939
Lovastatin is one of the most commonly used lipid-lowering drugs in familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) heterozygotes. In order to study whether the response to lovastatin is influenced by the underlying mutation in the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene, the authors compared the response in 24 heterozygotes in whom the mutation has been classified and in 34 heterozygotes in whom the mutation has not been classified. Those possessing a classified mutation had significantly higher pre-trial values of LDL-cholesterol than those possessing an unclassified mutation. However, no difference was found in the response to lovastatin. Nor were there any differences in the response between subjects possessing one of the three different classified mutations. Furthermore, irrespective of whether or not the mutation had been classified, no difference in the response was found between subjects in the upper and lower quartile with respect to pre-trial values of LDL-cholesterol. The authors conclude that the response to lovastatin is independent of both the specific mutation in the LDL receptor gene and the actual cholesterol level in FH heterozygotes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8721786
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8721787
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8721797
It has been suggested that the quality of clinical trials should be assessed by blinded raters to limit the risk of introducing bias into meta-analyses and systematic reviews, and into the peer-review process. There is very little evidence in the literature to substantiate this. This study describes the development of an instrument to assess the quality of reports of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) in pain research and its use to determine the effect of rater blinding on the assessments of quality. A multidisciplinary panel of six judges produced an initial version of the instrument. Fourteen raters from three different backgrounds assessed the quality of 36 research reports in pain research, selected from three different samples. Seven were allocated randomly to perform the assessments under blind conditions. The final version of the instrument included three items. These items were scored consistently by all the raters regardless of background and could discriminate between reports from the different samples. Blind assessments produced significantly lower and more consistent scores than open assessments. The implications of this finding for systematic reviews, meta-analytic research and the peer-review process are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8722437
Are newer types of antihypertensive agents, which are currently more costly to purchase on average, as good or better than diuretics in reducing coronary heart disease incidence and progression? Will lowering LDL cholesterol in moderately hypercholesterolemic older individuals reduce the incidence of cardiovascular disease and total mortality? These important medical practice and public health questions are to be addressed by the Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT), a randomized, double-blind trial in 40,000 high-risk hypertensive patients. ALLHAT is designed to determine whether the combined incidence of fatal coronary heart disease (CHD) and nonfatal myocardial infarction differs between persons randomized to diuretic (chlorthalidone) treatment and each of three alternative treatments--a calcium antagonist (amlodipine), an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (lisinopril), and an alpha-adrenergic blocker (doxazosin). ALLHAT also contains a randomized, open-label, lipid-lowering trial designed to determine whether lowering LDL cholesterol in 20,000 moderately hypercholesterolemic patients (a subset of the 40,000) with a 3-hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitor, pravastatin, will reduce all-cause mortality compared to a control group receiving "usual care." ALLHAT's main eligibility criteria are: 1) age 55 or older; 2) systolic or diastolic hypertension; and 3) one or more additional risk factors for heart attack (eg, evidence of atherosclerotic disease or type II diabetes). For the lipid-lowering trial, participants must have an LDL cholesterol of 120 to 189 mg/dL (100 to 129 mg/dL for those with known CHD) and a triglyceride level below 350 mg/dL. The mean duration of treatment and follow-up is planned to be 6 years. Further features of the rationale, design, objectives, treatment program, and study organization of ALLHAT are described in this article.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8723592
The main procedural drawback to percutaneous coronary angioplasty is restenosis of the treated site within 6 months. Despite advances in equipment, technique, and adjunctive therapies, restenosis has occurred in approximately one-third to one-half of all patients. The biology of restenosis can be divided into plaque persistence and recoil, thrombus formation and transformation, and cellular proliferation and vascular remodeling. Animal models of restenosis have helped to elucidate these mechanisms of restenosis and provide a means to test pharmacologic and mechanical strategies to reduce stenosis recurrence. While numerous agents have been tested in animal models, until recently none has translated into benefit in large-scale clinical trials. Two therapeutic "hopefuls" which have recently emerged in clinical practice are the potent platelet inhibitors, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists, and intracoronary metallic stents. The IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists target thrombus formation at the angioplasty site, thereby minimizing abrupt vessel closure acutely and neointimal growth chronically, while intracoronary stents safely produce a large coronary arterial lumen acutely and prevent vessel recoil. Separately, these therapeutic strategies have been shown to reduce clinical restenosis 20-30% at 6-month follow-up. With these encouraging results, the future will certainly provide more pharmacologic and mechanical therapies targeting restenosis. With increased understanding of the restenotic process and continued refinement of effective treatments, it may be possible one day to prevent stenosis recurrence.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8725976
Treatment of elevated cholesterol levels reduces morbidity and mortality from coronary heart disease in high-risk patients, but can be costly. The purpose of this study was to determine whether physician extenders emphasizing diet modification and, when necessary, effective and inexpensive drug algorithms can provide more cost-effective therapy than conventional care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8726243
The safety, tolerability, and efficacy of a 12-wk treatment with pravastatin, 5, 10, and 20 mg/d, was evaluated in 72 children with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) in a double-blind, randomized and placebo-controlled study. The results show that pravastatin was well tolerated and that adverse events were mild and equally distributed among the three treatment groups. Plasma total and LDL cholesterol levels were significantly reduced in all pravastatin treatment groups, in comparison with the control group; -24.6% (-28.1 to 21.0) and -32.9% (-37.0 to -28.6), for mean change and 95% confidence interval, respectively. In four children plasma LDL cholesterol levels were reduced within normal limits for sex and age. HDL cholesterol increased in the pravastatin 20-mg group, +10.8% (+3.4 to +18.8), whereas plasma apo B100 and very LDL (VLDL) cholesterol levels were reduced within all pravastatin-treated groups -26.8% (-31.2 [corrected] to -21.7) and -24.5% (-35.0 to -12.3). These data show that short-term pravastatin treatment of children with FH is safe and effective, although long-term dose titration studies with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitors need to be performed, to reduce plasma LDL cholesterol levels below a predefined level. The results of these studies have to be awaited before new treatment strategies are to be considered in these children.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8726600
To determine if low-dose lovastatin in combination with niacin causes a greater percentage reduction in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol than lovastatin alone, and to determine if the combination increases the risk of serious adverse effects. design. Prospective, randomized, open-label, clinical trial. setting. Family medicine clinic of a university-affiliated hospital. Patients. Patients with fasting LDL cholesterol concentrations of at least 150 mg/dl after 4 weeks of dietary stabilization and washout of any cholesterol-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8728350
Possible effects of multiple-dose administration of atorvastatin on the pharmacokinetics of single-dose antipyrine were evaluated in this drug-drug interaction study. Twelve healthy male volunteers received three 200-mg capsules of antipyrine on days 1 and 22, and two 40-mg atorvastatin tablets in the morning on days 8 through 23. Serial blood and urine samples were collected after administration of each antipyrine dose. Plasma was analyzed for antipyrine, and urine samples were analyzed for antipyrine, 4-hydroxyantipyrine, and norantipyrine by validated high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. Overall, antipyrine and atorvastatin doses were well tolerated in healthy volunteers. Mean antipyrine concentrations in plasma after administration of a single, oral dose of antipyrine during coadministration of multiple doses of atorvastatin were nearly superimposible on concentrations after administration of antipyrine alone. Individual and mean parameter values for plasma pharmacokinetics of antipyrine were similar in both treatment periods. Atorvastatin did not significantly alter the fraction of clearance of antipyrine in plasma that occurred by urinary excretion of 4-hydroxyantipyrine and norantipyrine. These results indicate that the recommended highest daily dose of atorvastatin has negligible effects on antipyrine pharmacokinetics and on oxidative pathways responsible for the metabolism of antipyrine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8729585
In many patients with primary hyperlipidaemia the statins have become the drugs of choice when diet alone has failed. The usual dosages of statins prescribed in most countries appear to be aimed at producing a reduction in levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) of about 25%. Fluvastatin is the newest member of this class of agent and the first completely synthetic compound. In dose-finding studies, fluvastatin has produced statistically significant (P < 0.001) reductions in LDL-C levels when used in dosages of 20 mg (21%) and 40 mg (27.4%), thus placing it within the range generally expected with usual dosages of other statins; additional studies have shown that the efficacy of fluvastatin is unaffected by gender and age. Moreover, fluvastatin produces the maximum reduction in LDL-C levels within 6 weeks and maintains this efficacy during long-term treatment (LDL-C levels have been reported to fall by 27.4% over 2 years with fluvastatin 40 mg/day). In high-risk patients the LDL-C-lowering effect of fluvastatin 40 mg/day is maintained when compared with low-risk patients (26.6% vs 24.8%). A similar pattern has been observed in hypertensive patients, irrespective of the antihypertensive agent used to control blood pressure. Fluvastatin has been found to produce better LDL-C-lowering effects than bezafibrate. In addition to lowering LDL-C levels by the required amount, 20 and 40 mg (the equivalent of pravastatin 20 mg) dosages of fluvastatin significantly reduce levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides and increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8729586
Statins are regarded as a well-tolerated class of drugs, particularly when compared with some of the older lipid-modifying agents, which have poor rates of compliance. Despite some early concern, the incidence of lens opacities observed in clinical studies involving statin use is no different from that in a normal ageing population. Similarly, the occurrence of insomnia with lipophilic agents appears to have been overemphasised and is not a clinically significant problem, irrespective of the statin under study. Fluvastatin is the newest representative of this class of agents; it has already been evaluated in thousands of patients who have hyperlipidaemia with and without additional risk factors. In controlled clinical studies, the incidence of the majority of adverse events observed with fluvastatin therapy is no higher than that seen with placebo, with the exception of gastrointestinal disturbances (known to be common to all stains). Nonetheless, the incidence of these effects seen with fluvastatin treatment is noted to be lower than that associated with cholestyramine or fibrate use. Elevations in levels of liver transaminases (aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase) have been reported with fluvastatin therapy but have led to discontinuation of treatment with the same frequency as with placebo. Elevations in creatine kinase levels as a cause of discontinuing fluvastatin are not more frequent than with placebo. Drug-related myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have not been reported with fluvastatin therapy, and myalgia does not occur more frequently than with placebo. In terms of drug interactions, fluvastatin does not interfere with the efficacy of antihypertensive agents. In controlled clinical trials, the overall reported discontinuation rate due to adverse events noted with fluvastatin therapy is not significantly distinguishable from the rate associated with placebo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8729587
Both the European Atherosclerosis Society and the US National Cholesterol Education Program have issued revised guidelines for the prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD), based on a multitude of recent epidemiological and angiographic studies. Both authorities agree that a target plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level is the single most important parameter, this target level being different for primary and secondary prevention. The introduction of statins for the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia provides an important tool to enable target LDL-C levels to be reached in most cases of primary prevention. For secondary prevention, however, the target LDL-C levels--2.6 mmol/l (100 mg/dl)--may be achieved in only a fraction of cases. Others may require the concomitant administration of other cholesterol-lowering drugs, such as bile-acid sequestrants (resins) and/or derivatives of fibric acid (fibrates). The use of statin-fibrate combinations has been discouraged since the report by the US Food and Drug Administration of 12 sporadic cases of myositis or rhabdomyolysis. During the past 7 years, however, 21 clinical trials have examined the efficacy and safety of statin-fibrate combinations in a total of 486 patients with a variety of dyslipidaemias. Overall, the combinations were proven to be effective and safe, and the incidence of abnormalities in liver function tests and levels of creatine kinase (CK) was low. A double-blind study has been carried out at the Hadassah University Hospital to examine the efficacy and safety of fluvastatin when combined with either cholestyramine (group 1) or bezafibrate (group 2) for the treatment of 38 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH). Patients in group 2 showed a reduction in plasma LDL-C levels of 35% and in LDL-C to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) ratio of 45% compared with 32% and 38% respectively in group 1. Both cholestyramine and bezafibrate produced an additional benefit of a 13% reduction in LDL-C levels in comparison with fluvastatin as monotherapy. An open-label ongoing study on a larger cohort of FH patients reveals that a decrease in plasma LDL-C levels of up to 38.5% may be achieved with a combination of fluvastatin 80 mg/day and bezafibrate 400 mg/day. In both studies, biochemical safety analyses revealed no notable abnormalities in liver function tests or levels of CK. It was concluded that fluvastatin-bezafibrate is a very effective synergistic therapy for heterozygous FH and is superior to a fluvastatin-cholestyramine combination.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8729588
Fluvastatin, a new synthetic inhibitor of HMGCoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A) reductase, has been studied in several models to examine its effects when used in combination with other lipid-modifying agents such as derivatives of fibric acid (bezafibrate), resins (cholestyramine), and niacin. The combination of fluvastatin with bezafibrate has been studied in a double-blind trial involving patients with well-documented familial hypercholesterolaemia. Fluvastatin 40 mg/day, combined with either bezafibrate 400 mg/day or cholestyramine 8 g/day, resulted in reductions in levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), these being indistinguishable between the groups; however, significantly greater increases in levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (21.3%) and reductions in levels of triglycerides (25.1%) were seen with the fluvastatin-bezafibrate combination. No notable increases were seen in levels of serum creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase, or alanine aminotransferase, and no cases of myopathy were observed. In a study model that examined low-dose combinations of fluvastatin with cholestyramine, reductions in levels of LDL-C of 15.8% and 19.3% were seen with fluvastatin 10 mg and 20 mg, respectively. After an 8-week interval in which a daily dosage of cholestyramine 8 g was added, from baseline, reductions of 26.3% in the 10 mg fluvastatin-cholestyramine group and 31.2% in the 20 mg fluvastatin-cholestyramine group were observed, whereas the placebo-cholestyramine group displayed a reduction of 14.9%. Doubling the resin dosage to 16 g/day for the final 8 weeks of the study provided little additional benefit. Myotoxicity has been observed when lovastatin is coadministered with niacin, and so the combination of niacin with fluvastatin has also been studied to examine the possibility of this effect occurring. Patients were randomised to either fluvastatin 20 mg or placebo for 6 weeks, after which time open-label niacin was administered to all patients and titrated to a final dosage of 3 g/day. After 6 weeks, fluvastatin produced a 20.8% reduction in LDL-C levels from baseline. When combined with niacin, a 43.7% reduction was noted at the week 15 endpoint, against the 26.5% reduction seen with niacin monotherapy. The combination was well tolerated, with no reports of myopathy or of significant elevations in creatine kinase or liver transaminase levels. Combinations of fluvastatin with a variety of other agents have been shown to have significant effects on lipid profiles, with no evidence to date of clinically remarkable safety findings. Thus, the use of combination therapies may result in optimal management of patients with moderately severe hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemic profiles.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8729590
Luminal renarrowing (restenosis) is the major limitation of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), and the search for a 'magic bullet' to prevent this apparent biological healing response to vessel injury has thus far been unsuccessful. Large clinical trials using serial quantitative coronary angiography have, however, provided some valuable insight into this area. In particular, the restenosis process may be measured as the loss in minimal luminal diameter from post-PTCA to follow-up angiography, and is essentially ubiquitous and normally distributed. The angiographic outcome of clinical trials can thus be appropriately evaluated using a continuous rather than a categorical approach, which also considerably reduces the number of patients required. Fluvastatin, a synthetic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, has been shown experimentally to reduce the neointimal proliferative response after PTCA, independent of its lipid-lowering action. The FLuvastatin Angioplasty REstenosis trial was designed to evaluate whether fluvastatin 40 mg twice daily, commencing at least 2 weeks before planned PTCA, can reduce luminal loss by 30% from successful PTCA to follow-up angiography at 26 +/- 2 weeks in 730 evaluable patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8729591
Lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) resembles a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle, but with the addition of apolipoprotein(a). Apolipoprotein(a) (apo(a)) is homologous to plasminogen, and its similarity to plasminogen indicates a prothrombogenic role for Lp(a), whereas the similarity of Lp(a) to LDL suggests a proatherogenic role. Thus, Lp(a) is a link between atherosclerosis and thrombosis. The apo(a) gene is highly polymorphic, and a relationship exists between the different apo(a) alleles and plasma Lp(a) levels. There is also evidence to suggest an association between serum Lp(a) concentration and the frequency of cardiovascular atherosclerosis, particularly myocardial infarction in men, although some of the recently published epidemiological studies have been controversial. The heightened awareness of increased Lp(a) levels being a risk factor for coronary artery disease has led to the evaluation of the effects of lipid-lowering agents on Lp(a) levels. The data that have emerged, however, are conflicting, and are derived mostly from short-term studies involving the use of statins. Our group has studied the short- and long-term effect of fluvastatin on Lp(a) in hypercholesterolaemic patients; fluvastatin was found to have no effect in such patients as observed in the short-term studies, but significant reductions in Lp(a) levels were noted during long-term treatment. Although our findings are in agreement with those of a previously published report, there is still a great need to confirm the data that have been reported in separate studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8729902
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8730343
We examined the phenotypic characteristics, molecular genetics and optimal pharmacological treatment of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) in an English family with combined hyperlipidaemia. The proband presented in adulthood with classical clinical characteristics of CTX, a greater than tenfold elevation in plasma cholestanol and combined hyperlipidaemia. His brother also had typical features of CTX without the presence of dyslipidaemia. Genotyping revealed that the two brothers were compound heterozygotes for a novel missense mutation in exon 2 (R94Q) and for a recently described nonsense mutation in exon 5, of the sterol 27-hydroxylase gene (CYP27). Analysis of all available family members revealed that hyperlipidaemia did not co-segregate with the presence of a CYP27 mutant allele. Trial of therapy showed that the lowest plasma sterol and triglyceride concentrations and cholestanol:cholesterol ratio were achieved with the combination of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) 750 mg/day, a primary bile acid, and simvastatin 40 mg/day, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A reductase. CDCA alone and simvastatin alone significantly lowered plasma cholestanol concentration, but the decrease was greater with the former. After 1 year there was significant improvement in both cognitive and motor function with regression of tendon xanthomata on computerized tomography. We conclude that CTX in this English pedigree is probably due to compound mutant alleles in CYP27, that combined hyperlipidaemia in this family is unrelated to CTX, and that this complicated condition responds optimally to the combination of CDCA and simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8735678
1. We have examined the interaction between aerobic exercise and lipid-lowering drugs in a crossover study of 16 healthy normolipidaemic volunteers who each received 21 days' treatment with bezafibrate (400 mg), fluvastatin (40 mg), and placebo, in random order. 2. Fluvastatin treatment reduced pre-exercise total cholesterol (TC) by 23% (P < 0.0001), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by 33% (P < 0.0001), and plasma triglycerides by 11%, compared with pre-treatment values. Bezafibrate reduced TC by 11% (P < 0.01); LDL-C by 9%; and plasma triglycerides by 40% (P < 0.01), compared with pre-treatment values. 3. During exercise, in comparison with placebo, and fluvastatin treatment, respectively, bezafibrate significantly reduced mean fat oxidation: 31% vs 39%, P = 0.035, 31% vs 39%, P = 0.002, plasma free fatty acid (FFA) availability, e.g. after 90 min of exercise: (t90) 520 vs 662 mumol 1(-1), P = 0.054, 520 vs 725 mumol 1(-1), P = 0.016, and plasma levels of glycerol (t90): 59 vs 74 mumol 1(-1), P = 0.037, 59 vs 73 mumol 1(-1), P = 0.016. Fluvastatin had no impact on fat metabolism in comparison with placebo. 4. Reduced plasma FFA concentration and lower fat oxidation during prolonged exercise on bezafibrate treatment may be due to an inhibition of hepatic acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase, resulting in reduced FFA release from adipose tissue. 5. The possibility that impaired fat metabolism on fibrates could induce premature fatigue during exercise of moderate duration and intensity should be examined in hyperlipidaemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8736620
Gemfibrozil improves lipid and apolipoprotein profiles, particularly very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) triglyceride and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels, in patients with dyslipidaemia when administered at a total daily dose of 900 or 1200 mg. As demonstrated by the Helsinki Heart Study, these effects result in a reduction in some risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) and also a 34% reduction in the incidence of this disease after 5 years compared with placebo. Limited data suggest that gemfibrozil has beneficial effects on the fibrinolytic system and may slow the progression of atherosclerosis. Gemfibrozil has shown efficacy in the treatment of patients with type IIa, IIb, III, IV or V dyslipidaemia or hypoalphalipoproteinaemia, especially in patients with elevated triglyceride and low HDL cholesterol levels. It is also effective in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and dyslipidaemia and has no detrimental effects on glycaemic control. A small number of studies also showed gemfibrozil to be effective for the control of dyslipidaemia associated with renal failure, transplantation, nephrotic syndrome, arterial occlusive disease or systemic lupus erythematosus. However, patients with pre-existing CHD do not appear to derive the same benefits (reduced CHD mortality) from gemfibrozil therapy as these other patients, although results are based on studies of limited size and number. In general, gemfibrozil has at least similar efficacy to bile acid sequestrants and other fibric acid derivatives. Comparisons with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors show these agents to produce different effects on lipid profiles from gemfibrozil. Thus, gemfibrozil would be expected to be superior in some patients (those with elevated triglyceride or VLDL cholesterol levels), but HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should have greater benefits in those with elevated low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Thus, in patients with elevated triglyceride levels and low HDL cholesterol levels, and, particularly in patients with NIDDM, gemfibrozil is a useful treatment option, which has been shown to reduce the risk of CHD in middle aged men. However, limited available data prevents the accurate comparison of this agent with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in patients with this lipid profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8737199
Angina pectoris is a common symptom in patients over 50 years and is usually secondary to myocardial ischaemia resulting from coronary artery disease. The management of angina should be aimed at the maintenance or improvement of quality of life and delaying death. There are three strategies that may be adopted: medical, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and surgery. The majority of patients with angina can be controlled symptomatically most of the time by medical treatment alone. Any assessment of cost of treatment must take into account the cost of investigation, treatment, the morbidity associated with procedures or side effects of drugs, together with that of recurrent hospitalization, prolonged life and premature death. In addition, the duration of treatment has a major bearing on cost. Taking these factors into account, medical therapy is the least expensive short- and long-term treatment for angina pectoris. A medical approach to treatment also has considerable advantages over an interventional approach in terms of major morbidity. Only one of six surgical trials has demonstrated a survival benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8737761
The affinity of (+)-, (-)- and (+/-)- fluvastatin, a new synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor developed as a racemate, for specific human P450 monooxygenases in liver microsomes was compared with that of the pharmacologically active acidic forms of lovastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8739021
A double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of low-dose (10 mg) prevastatin and squalene (860 mg), either alone or in combination therapy, with placebo in the treatment of elderly patients with hypercholesterolemia. Ambulatory elderly patients (N = 102) were assigned in randomized fashion to receive active treatment or placebo for 20 weeks after a single-blind placebo lead-in period of 8 weeks. Total cholesterol and triglyceride levels in plasma were at least 250 mg/dL and less than 300 mg/dL, respectively. Concentrations of lipids and lipoproteins were measured, and clinical laboratory tests included liver function and creatine kinase determinations. Pravastatin 10 mg daily was more effective than squalene in reducing total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides and in increasing levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Combination therapy significantly reduced total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol and increased HDL cholesterol to a greater extent than either drug alone. Adverse events and clinical laboratory abnormalities were generally mild and transient in all groups, and all but two patients finished the study. The incidence of side effects was low; myopathy did not occur. Coadministration of pravastatin and squalene combined the specific effects of the two drugs on lipoprotein concentrations. This combination may be useful and more cost-effective in elderly patients with hypercholesterolemia, who might have a higher incidence of side effects when using larger doses of pravastatin alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8743904
Adenovirus-mediated gene transfer into mammalian liver is a highly efficient process that can result in transduction frequencies approaching 100%. Coupled with efficient expression levels from these vectors, the transfer of genes encoding a variety of enzymes, ligands and receptors has resulted in physiologically significant effects on lipoprotein metabolism. Adenovirus vectors have not only proved useful in the study of lipoprotein metabolism, they may also ultimately be used for hepatic gene therapy of inherited monogenic and polygenic disorders. The main hurdle to overcome before this technology can be therapeutically applied is the relatively short duration of expression in immunocompetent hosts. Apparently, cytolytic T-lymphocyte-mediated rejection of the transduced hepatocytes is caused by low-level expression of adenovirus genes. Several strategies have been recently employed in an attempt to circumvent this immune response and prolong transgene expression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8744535
Dyslipidemia is common in patients with renal disease, may contribute to the high incidence of cardiovascular disease, and may play a role in progressive renal injury. Recent studies have shown that newer antilipemic agents appear to be safe and effective in patients with renal disease. This should make it possible to conduct large, controlled clinical trials examining the effect of lipid-lowering strategies on cardiovascular disease, and on renal disease progression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8746603
Hypertension and hypercholesterolemia frequently coexist, necessitating concurrent treatments for both disorders. The present study aimed at evaluating the efficacy, the safety, and the toleration of captopril, an ACE inhibitor, hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic, and pravastatin, a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor co-administered in hypertensive patients in general practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750244
The recently published article by Kobashigawa et al. [1] regarding the benefit of using pravastatin in treating hypercholesterolemia in heart transplant recipients is reviewed. A comment on the implications of the researchers' findings follows.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750245
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750248
A wide consensus has been reached concerning the importance of lipid-lowering drug therapy in patients with dyslipidaemia with overt coronary heart disease. This consensus is also likely to be reflected in the more active treatment of other high-risk patient groups. The statin family of drugs has been tested in a large secondary prevention study, the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study, and in angiographic trials. Their role in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia and mixed hyperlipidaemia is increasing, whereas fibrates are increasingly limited to hypertriglyceridaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750249
The effectiveness of lipid-regulating therapy in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease requires further investigation. The only data available are from trials conducted before the advent of more potent lipid-regulating agents, but several large trials currently in progress are expected to provide valuable evidence about the role of lipid-regulating intervention in primary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750250
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study showed that a 35% decrease in LDL-cholesterol was accompanied by a 42% reduction in coronary mortality. Even if the period of time is longer than 1 year for the divergence of survival curves in the simvastatin and placebo groups there are reasons to believe that the beneficial effect of lipid lowering is rapid. The effect may be mediated by stabilization of lipid-rich coronary lesions or by effects on endothelium. Lipid-lowering studies in the acute stage of coronary heart disease are suggested.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750251
The results of several lipid-lowering randomized trials were released during the past year. The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study has contributed significantly to the understanding of lipid-lowering on all-cause and coronary mortality outcome. An approximate 25% net difference in cholesterol between the simvastatin and placebo group produced a 30% reduction in total mortality in the simvastatin group (P < 0.01). No increase in noncardiovascular mortality or nonfatal diseases was observed. Although angiographic trials that study atherosclerosis are not designed to show the effect on clinical outcome, several new trials such as the Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Progression Study, the Multicentre Anti-Atheroma Study, the Canadian Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial and the Stanford Coronary Risk Intervention Project all add information that is consistent with the results from the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study. The meta-analysis of randomized cholesterol-lowering trials also indicates that no excess of all-cause mortality is present when the degree of cholesterol reduction and treatment modality is adjusted. It is probable that the excess mortality from noncardiovascular causes found in unadjusted analyses is due to specific effects of hormones and fibrate drug treatments to reduce cholesterol. It is concluded that the lipid hypothesis is confirmed more solidly than ever before.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8750252
The value of specific LDL apheresis in drug-resistant cases of hyperlipidaemia is reviewed, as well as new data on the prevention of new lesion formation, efficacy of therapy based on initial lipid levels, and the consequences of lipid lowering in the angioplasty setting. Studies undertaken in the carotid and femoral bed are included, as is a brief discussion of the use of probucol as an adjunct to lipid-lowering therapy. These studies have emerged on a backdrop of data focused more on reduction of clinical events than on morphologic changes. Studies on the clinical impact of lipid-lowering therapy are included to provide a linkage between the rationale and conclusions of the angiographic trials with the emerging demonstration that cholesterol lowering does indeed reduce both cardiovascular and total mortality without inducing significant noncardiovascular morbidity or mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8752184
This study analyzed the cost-effectiveness of pravastatin in secondary prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD). The projected risk model in 445 male patients with established CAD and moderately elevated serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol used results data from 2 placebo-controlled plaque regression trials: Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary Arteries and Pravastatin, Lipids, and Atherosclerosis in the Carotids. Framingham Heart Study data were used to project the risk of mortality 10 years after myocardial infarction (MI) for incremental male patients in the placebo group who had MI. A Markov process was used to estimate life-years saved, and decision analysis was used to estimate cost. Depending on the patient-risk profile, the midrange estimated cost per life-year saved with pravastatin in secondary prevention of CAD varied from $7,124 to $12,665, which is favorable compared with other widely accepted medical interventions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8752186
A paucity of substantive data from clinical drug trials is available specifically evaluating the effects of therapy for hypercholesterolemia in African-Americans, even though a substantial number are candidates for medical advice and intervention for high blood cholesterol. The efficacy and safety of lovastatin in 459 African-Americans with hypercholesterolemia were studied in the Expanded Clinical Evaluation of Lovastatin study, a multicenter, double-blind, diet- and placebo-controlled trial. This trial involved 8,245 patients who were randomly assigned, regardless of race, to receive placebo or lovastatin at doses of 20 mg once daily, 40 mg once daily, 20 mg twice daily, or 40 mg twice daily for 48 weeks. Among African-Americans, lovastatin produced sustained, dose-related (p <0.001) decreases in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (20% to 38%), total cholesterol (14% to 28%), and triglycerides (8% to 15%). From 75% to 96% of African-Americans treated with lovastatin achieved the National Cholesterol Education Program goal of low-density lipoprotien cholesterol <160 mg/di, and from 33% to 71% achieved the goal <130 mg/di. The safety profile of lovastotin in African-Americans was generally favorable. A relatively high incidence of creatine kinase levels greater than the upper limit of normal was observed in African-Americans during the study, i.e., 63% in the placebo group and similar levels in lovastatin treatment groups. Lovastatin is highly effective and generally well tolerated as therapy for primary hypercholesterolemia in African-Americans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8769685
Elevated plasma fibrinogen level is known to progress atherosclerosis and to be one of the risk factors for the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases. The objective of this study is to evaluate the changes in plasma fibrinogen level and blood rheology in patients with type II hyperlipoproteinemia before and after random administrations of HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-e-methylglutaryl-cocarboxylase-A) reductase inhibitors, pravastatin sodium and simvastatin, and compare with results in normal subjects. Of a total of 28 patients with type II primary hyperlipoproteinemia with > 230 mg/dl fasting total plasma cholesterol, 16 patients (mean, 59.7 years old) were administered 10-15 mg/day of pravastatin sodium for an average of 10.2 weeks, and 12 patients (mean, 62.0 years old) were administered 5-10 mg/day of simvastatin for an average of 13.9 weeks. Patients were evaluated before and after drug administration and results were compared with those of 16 normal subjects of similar age (mean, 56.9 years old). Blood viscosities were measured using a cone-plate viscometer (Biorheolizer, BRL-1000, Japan). The following were measured before and after drug administration: whole blood viscosity at shear rates of 75-375 s-1, corrected blood viscosity at low (112.5 s-1) and high (225.0 s-1) shear rates for the standard hematocrit of 45%, plasma viscosity, hematocrit, total protein, serum albumin, and plasma fibrinogen. Total cholesterol level was significantly decreased (from 270 to 225, mg/dl, mean values; P < 0.0007) an average of 10.2 weeks after start of pravastatin sodium administration. In addition to the reductions of whole blood viscosity, at every shear rate examined, corrected blood viscosity, and plasma viscosity, plasma fibrinogen levels were significantly decreased (from 354 to 309 mg/dl, mean values; P < 0.0007) after start of pravastatin sodium administration. Fibrinogen level and blood rheology were not significantly changed after start of simvastatin administration despite similar significant reductions in total cholesterol level (from 260 to 207 mg/dl, mean values; P < 0.0001) to those in the case of pravastatin sodium. From the results, we conclude that administration of pravastatin sodium, but not simvastatin, reduced the plasma fibrinogen level and blood viscosities to normal levels in type II hyperlipoproteinemic patients while both drugs reduced total cholesterol level. The hydrophilicity and a small binding capacity with plasma protein of pravastatin sodium may be responsible in part for the beneficial hemorheologic effects observed in the patients with type II hyperlipoproteinemia. Further investigations should be conducted to confirm the findings observed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8770319
The effects of simvastatin and pravastatin on cholesterol biosynthesis were compared in 26 hypercholesterolemic patients who were randomly allocated to either simvastatin or pravastatin treatment (20 mg once daily) for 6 weeks in a crossover trial. Serum total cholesterol (TC), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lathosterol (latho) concentrations and lathosterol/cholesterol (latho/chol) ratios (the latter two are considered as reliable indices of whole body cholesterol synthesis) were evaluated at the beginning and end of each therapeutic sequence. Reductions in TC and LDL-C were more pronounced (P < 0.001) with simvastatin (TC = -28.0%, LDL-C = -35.6%) than with pravastatin (TC = -19.6%, LDL-C = -25.2%). These results were associated with concomitant decreases in both latho concentrations (-59.0% with simvastatin and -37.0% with pravastatin) and latho/chol ratios (-43.0% with simvastatin and -20.3% with pravastatin). Simvastatin resulted in more marked diminutions of latho concentrations (P < 0.01) and latho/chol ratios (P < 0.05) than pravastatin. These results suggest that the better efficacy of simvastatin on serum cholesterol and LDL cholesterol might result in part from a greater inhibitory action of simvastatin on cholesterol synthesis compared with that of pravastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8772621
To study whether the addition of metformin further improves the blood lipid pattern in non-diabetic patients with coronary heart disease already treated with lovastatin, diet and lifestyle advice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8772679
Although smoking increases both the risk of developing coronary disease and the risk of coronary events in patients with known coronary atherosclerosis, the effect of smoking on the evolution of coronary atherosclerosis as assessed by serial angiography is poorly defined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8773342
In order to investigate the effects of lovastatin on adrenal and gonadal function, we prospectively determined the basal and gonadorelin-stimulated concentrations of testosterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) and the cortisol response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in a sample of 25 male patients with advanced chronic renal failure, hypercholesterolemia and proteinuria. Hormone studies were done prior to and after lovastatin treatment. The values of these patients were compared with those of a matched healthy control group. Before starting treatment with lovastatin, the patients showed significantly lower testosterone concentration and higher LH concentration than the control group. After stimulation with gonadorelin, they also showed a lower increase in testosterone and LH. After 12 months of lovastatin treatment, a significant decrease in the concentration of cholesterol, LDL C, VLDL C and apo B was observed, but neither the basal testosterone concentration nor the response to gonadorelin stimulation was modified. Before treatment, basal and ACTH-stimulated serum cortisol levels did not differ from those of the control group. After lovastatin treatment, neither the basal serum cortisol levels nor the response to ACTH was modified. We conclude that in the patients studied, although the decrease in testosterone concentration may be partially attributable to a decrease in its synthesis, lovastatin treatment does not increase testosterone deficit. This is either because this drug does not inhibit gonadal hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA reductase at the does given or because the cholesterol which LDL C provides the cell with is enough to maintain testosterone synthesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8774625
Lipid lowering therapies were employed to prevent restenosis following elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). The effect of probucol was compared to that of Pravastatin in 141 coronary atherosclerosis patients. Probucol (750 mg/day) was administered for at least 30 days prior to PTCA (34 patients, group P-1) or less than 14 days prior to PTCA (27 patients, group P-2). Pravastatin (10 mg/day) was administered for at least 30 days prior to PTCA (38 patients, group V-1) or less than 14 days prior to PTCA (42 patients, group V-2). In group P-1, the patient restenosis rate was 17.6% and lesion restenosis rate was 14%. These rates were significantly lower than those of group V-1, which were 44.7% and 40.4% respectively (p < 0.05). The respective values were 48.1% and 51.8% in group P-2 (p < 0.05, vs group P-1) and 35.7% and 34% (p < 0.05, vs group P-1) in group V-2. Probucol seems to work, not only by lowering cholesterol but also by its antioxidative properties when administered for a sufficient period prior to PTCA.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8775472
The aim of this work was to evaluate and compare the effects of a low calorie diet (1026 kcal), simvastatin and ursodeoxycholic acid administration on biliary lipid secretion and cholic acid kinetics in dieting obese subjects. We studied 6 obese subjects before and after four weeks of a hypocaloric diet alone, after four weeks of diet plus ursodeoxycholic acid (900 mg/day) and after four weeks of diet plus simvastatin (40 mg/day), according to a Latin square design. The cholesterol saturation index was increased after diet alone, significantly reduced with diet plus ursodeoxycholic acid (p < 0.01), and unchanged during simvastatin administration. While the cholesterol output was reduced by all three regimens, diet plus ursodeoxycholic acid caused a significantly greater decrease than diet alone (p < 0.01). Cholic acid synthesis and bile acid secretion were decreased by diet and diet plus simvastatin (p < 0.05), but neither was affected by ursodeoxycholic acid. For cholic acid, all three treatments, but especially diet alone and diet plus simvastatin (p < 0.05), reduced the pool size; all three regimens also increased the turnover rate, but this was significant only for ursodeoxycholic acid (p < 0.01). Our study shows that, in obese patients, a hypocaloric diet reduces cholesterol-holding biliary lipid output and consequently increases the cholesterol saturation index. The addition of simvastatin to a hypocaloric dietary regimen reduces cholesterol secretion, but without variation in bile acid and phospholipid output thus the cholesterol saturation index remains unchanged. When ursodeoxycholic acid is added to the dietary regimen, it reduces cholesterol secretion, while maintaining bile acid output and, thus, lowers the cholesterol saturation index. Unlike simvastatin, ursodeoxycholic acid prevents the drop in cholic acid synthesis induced by a low calorie diet.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8781465
The authors evaluated the association between plasma vitamin E content and progression of eye lens opacities. A total of 410 hypercholesterolemic eastern Finnish men participated in the study from January 1990 to September 1993 in Kuopio, Finland. Lens opacities were classified three times at 18-month intervals using the Lens Opacities Classification System II. A low plasma vitamin E level (lowest quartile) was associated with a 3.7-fold excess risk (95% confidence interval 1.2-11.8) of the progression of early cortical lens opacities compared with the highest quartile (p = 0.028). In addition, the number of cigarettes smoked daily was a significant predictor of the progression of cortical lens opacity (relative risk = 1.06 per cigarette, 95% confidence interval 1.003-1.12). The progression of nuclear lens opacities was not associated with either the plasma vitamin E content or smoking. The data suggest that low plasma vitamin E content may be associated with increased risk of the progression of early cortical lens opacity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8782844
Abrupt withdrawal of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is associated with increased excretion of cholesterol into bile, but this phenomenon has not been investigated in humans. In order to evaluate whether patients interrupting these hypolipidemic drugs are at increased risk of forming gallstones, pravastatin (40 mg twice a day) or placebo was randomly administered to 16 bile fistula patients for 5 days. Biliary lipid composition was determined in basal conditions and for 5 consecutive days after drug withdrawal. Both biliary cholesterol concentration and saturation increased significantly on the second day after pravastatin withdrawal, but tended to decrease thereafter. Biliary bile acids and phospholipids were not affected. This short-lasting effect on biliary cholesterol excretion was probably the result of a transient increase of hepatic cholesterol synthesis by the up-regulated HMG-CoA reductase in the absence of the inhibitory drug. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that, also in humans, biliary cholesterol excretion could be dependent on the hepatic free cholesterol pool.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8795167
A randomly selected subset of 100 pairs of baseline and 36-month follow-up carotid B-mode ultrasound examinations from the 919 patients participating in the Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Progression Study (ACAPS) were subjected to a blinded rereading at the conclusion of the trial to assess temporal bias in the measurement of carotid artery intimal-medial thickness (IMT). The original measurements of the primary outcome variable and five secondary outcome variables at baseline and 36 months, respectively, and the 3-year change in each of these variables, were compared with those obtained from the rereadings. For the primary outcome variable, the mean value of 12 IMT measurements obtained from predefined carotid segments, the mean difference (original-rereading) and the 95% confidence interval which resulted from the rereadings were -0.005 (-0.033, 0.023) mm at baseline and -0.009 (-0.031, 0.013) mm at 36 months. The difference in the 3-year change was -0.004 (-0.038, 0.028) mm. The 95% confidence interval for the mean difference between the rereadings and the original readings for the baseline and the 36-month follow-up examinations included zero for all of the six outcome variables as was also the case for the 3-year change in each variable. The magnitude of the mean differences for these 18 variables ranged from 0.004 to 0.034 mm. Intraclass correlation coefficients between the original readings and rereadings ranged from 0.56 to 0.87 with the 3-year changes in outcome variables tending to have lower correlations and the 36-month examinations higher correlations. The carotid IMT measurement process, when combined with uniform reader training, certification and monitoring of reading performance throughout the course of the study, can avoid the temporal bias observed in other studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8800496
The oxidative modification of human low density lipoprotein (LDL) has been widely investigated. However, there are no data concerning the oxidation susceptibility of combined very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), intermediate density lipoprotein (IDL) and low density lipoprotein fraction, although all of them are atherogenic and contain antioxidants such as alpha-tocopherol. We investigated the oxidation susceptibility and oxidation resistance of VLDL + LDL (including IDL) fraction by induction with CuCl2 and its relation to plasma alpha-tocopherol concentration and lipid standardised alpha-tocopherol concentration in 406 non-vitamin E-supplemented men from eastern Finland. Even thought we did not give oral vitamin E or any other antioxidant supplementation to our study participants, we observed a significant, consistent relationship between measurements of oxidation resistance and plasma content of vitamin E. In the multivariate regression model, a high plasma content of vitamin E or lipid standardised vitamin E concentration were the most important determinants of lag time to maximal oxidation rate (standardised regression coefficient = 0.244, P < 0.0001 for vitamin E and 0.211, P < 0.0001 for lipid standardised vitamin E). After statistical adjustment for age, use of cigarettes, hypolipidemic medication (yes vs. no), month of the measurements, plasma concentrations of total ascorbic acid (ascorbic acid + dehydroascorbic acid), beta-carotene and phospholipids, serum concentrations of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides and dietary intake of linoleic acid, the lag time to maximal oxidation rate was 10% (95% C.I. 6.0-13.5%) longer in men in the highest fifth than in the lowest fifth of plasma vitamin E content (P < 0.0001 for trend). When the fifths of lipid standardised vitamin E were compared, the lag time to maximal oxidation rate was 6% (95% C.I. 1.8-10.1%) longer in men in the highest than in the lowest fifth (P < 0.0001 for trend). Our data suggest that alpha-tocopherol is an important antioxidant preventing the in vitro oxidation of VLDL + LDL fraction even in non-supplemented subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8801396
The well-known relationship between high plasma cholesterol levels and coronary heart disease makes the treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia an important issue.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8801446
In patients with high cholesterol levels, lowering the cholesterol level reduces the risk of coronary events, but the effect of lowering cholesterol levels in the majority of patients with coronary disease, who have average levels, is less clear.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8801868
Patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) (n = 53) were examined with B-mode ultrasound before and after 3 years of cholesterol-lowering therapy with pravastatin, cholestyramine, or a combination. The aim was to measure the progression rate of intima-media thickening during follow-up in the common carotid and common femoral arteries. Since for ethical reasons it was not possible to perform a randomized placebo controlled study in patients with FH, we chose to recruit an untreated control group with lower risk, matched for sex, age, height and weight, and with serum cholesterol below 6.5 mmol/l. At baseline, intima-media thickness was larger in the hypercholesterolemic group than in the control group in both the common carotid and common femoral arteries. The difference between the change over 3 years observed in the control group and the change observed in the hypercholesterolemic group was calculated and defined as 'net difference'. There was a -32% net difference in low density lipoprotein (LDL) in the hypercholesterolemic group during follow-up. The ultrasound investigation showed a concomitant net difference of -0.06 mm in mean carotid intima-media thickness (95% confidence interval, -0.11 to -0.01 mm) and of -0.09 mm in maximum carotid intima-media thickness (P < 0.05, 95% confidence interval, -0.16 to -0.01 mm), with no net change in lumen diameter. No decrease was recorded in common femoral intima-medial thickness. Seventeen of the patients with FH had a positive history of myocardial infarction (MI) and this subgroup had a significantly larger decrease in mean carotid intima-media thickness during follow-up than the subgroup of patients with a negative history of MI (P < 0.01). In conclusion, the results showed a reduction in common carotid intima-media thickness after long-term cholesterol-lowering therapy in patients with FH. This finding may indicate a beneficial effect on atherosclerosis development in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8806337
Hyperlipidemia occurs frequently after heart transplantation, and accelerated coronary artery disease remains the major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients who survive more than 1 year after heart transplantation. However, the risks and benefits of lipid-lowering therapy after heart transplantation remain poorly defined, and national guidelines for lipid-lowering drug therapy do not specifically address treatment of dyslipidemia in transplant recipients. Since the initial reports in the 1980s of rhabdomyolysis in heart transplant patients receiving high-dosage lovastatin, results of 11 post-transplantation series that used lovastatin, simvastatin, or pravastatin at lower dosages as drug monotherapy have been published. These studies have shown an overall 1% incidence of rhabdomyolysis, defined as creatine kinase > 10 times the upper limit of normal plus muscle symptoms. One randomized, controlled prospective trial has investigated the effects of lipid-lowering pharmacotherapy on patient outcome in cardiac transplant recipients. At 1-year follow-up in this nonblinded, single-center trial, patients treated with pravastatin (20 or 40 mg/day) initiated within 2 weeks of transplantation had a significant reduction in mortality rate and a significantly lower incidence of transplant arteriopathy. A number of important issues remain unanswered regarding treatment guidelines in patients with hyperlipidemia after heart transplantation. In January 1995 we began the Heart Transplant Lipid Registry, with 12 participant centers, to gather data prospectively on the efficacy and safety of lipid-lowering drugs in the treatment of dyslipidemia after heart transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8808497
Fasting plasma mevalonic acid (MVA), an indicator of in vivo cholesterol synthesis, was measured in 35 patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) of whom 7 were treated with pravastatin 10-40 mg/day, 7 with simvastatin 10-40 mg/day and 21 with atorvastatin 80 mg/day. Reductions in low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and MVA on maximal dose therapy differed significantly between the three drugs: 34.7%, 42.9% and 54.0% (P = 0.0001), and 31.6%, 48.9% and 58.8% (P = 0.004), respectively. Patients on atorvastatin were subdivided according to whether their reduction in LDL cholesterol on treatment was above or below the mean percentage change for the whole group. Basal values of LDL cholesterol did not differ significantly, but above average responders had a significantly higher mean pre-treatment level of MVA (6.2 +/- 0.60 vs. 4.3 +/- 0.61 ng/ml, P < 0.05) than below average responders. When all three drug groups were pooled above average responders showed a significantly greater absolute decrease in MVA on treatment than below average responders (3.85 +/- 0.48 vs. 2.33 +/- 0.40 ng/ml, P < 0.05). However, there was no significant correlation between the magnitude of the decreases in LDL cholesterol and MVA. These findings suggest that FH patients who responded well to statins had a higher basal level of plasma MVA, i.e. a higher rate of cholesterol synthesis, which was more susceptible to pharmacological inhibition. The more marked cholesterol lowering effect of atorvastatin 80 mg/day presumably reflects, at least in part, its ability to inhibit HMG-CoA reductase to a greater extent than maximal recommended doses of pravastatin and simvastatin of 40 mg/day.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8809507
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8809516
An analysis of the cost-effectiveness of simvastatin was conducted, based on the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S). The total cost of hospitalization in the placebo group was 52.8 million Swedish kronor (SEK) (5.15 million pounds), compared with SEK 36.0 million (3.51 million pounds) in the simvastatin group. This amounts to a 32% reduction, or a saving of SEK 16.8 million (1.6 million pounds) or SEK 7560 (738 pounds) per patient. The net cost per patient for the duration of the study (5.4 years) was SEK 13,540 (1324 pounds). Simvastatin treatment saved an estimated 0.377 undiscounted life years (0.240 life years discounted at 5% per annum). The cost of simvastatin therapy per discounted life-year saved was therefore SEK 56,400 (5502 pounds). Sensitivity analysis, examining the effect of different life expectancies, costs of initiation and monitoring of simvastatin therapy, and discount rates, showed the results to be stable. Conclusion. The cost per life-year saved of simvastatin in the treatment of post-myocardial infarction and angina patients, as determined from 4S data, is well within the range normally considered cost-effective.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8815751
Combination drug therapy has been shown to decrease cholesterol levels in hyperlipidemic patients. However, its efficacy has not been well studied in patients previously considered to be normolipidemic, many of whom are now candidates for this therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8816723
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of pravastatin 20mg at night, versus placebo, in combination with dietary, smoking cessation, and other lifestyle advice in general practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8819689
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8820097
There is evidence that the overproduction of apoB-100-containing lipoproteins by the liver is the underlying event in some forms of dyslipoproteinemia. This metabolic status is associated to an increased risk of developing premature coronary artery disease CAD. The conclusions from previous studies suggested that the availability to the hepatocytes of cholesterol that is readily esterified is an important determinant for VLDL and LDL secretion. In the present study, we set out to investigate the effect of the specific stimulation and inhibition of the rate-limiting enzyme of the cholesterol esterification, acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT, E.C. 2.3.1.26), on the lipid and on the apoB-100 secretion rate from a human hepatoma cell line (HepG2). When the specific ACAT inhibitor FCE 27677 (10-5 M) was added to the cultures, a decrease of the cellular cholesteryl ester content and at the same time a significant reduction of the neutral lipids and of the apoB-100 secretion rate were noticed. The stimulation of ACAT by 25-hydroxycholesterol (20 microgram/ml) caused a 4-fold increase of the cellular cholesteryl ester content and a 2-fold increase of the lipoprotein secretion rate. FCE 27677 (10-5 M to 10-7 M) prevented the effects elicited by the oxysterol. On the contrary, lovastatin (10-6 M) and gemfibrozil (10-6 M) had no effect. The analysis of the lipid and of the apolipoprotein composition of the lipoproteins secreted in the medium revealed that ACAT inhibition had the dual effect of both decreasing the number of apoB-100-containing lipoproteins secreted as well as their cholesteryl ester load. Altogether, these data support the idea of a close relationship between ACAT activation, leading to increased cholesteryl ester availability, and apoB-100-containing lipoprotein secretion. It is speculated that ACAT inhibitors may prove useful for the treatment of human dyslipoproteinemias caused by the hepatic overproduction of apoB-100-containing lipoproteins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8820770
The old paradigm states that the greater the stenosis, the greater the risk of cardiac events. Revascularization procedures are the only effective approach to improving prognosis associated with coronary artery disease. In contrast, on the basis of the new paradigm, the nature of the plaque determines the risk of acute cardiovascular events. Dangerous plaques have a lipid-rich core with surrounding inflammation and a thin friable overlying fibrous cap, but they usually appear innocuous on angiography. Effective risk factor modification stabilizes the dangerous plaques and is associated with prompt improvement in endothelial dysfunction and a substantial decrease in the risk of acute cardiovascular events and death.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8824106
Familial combined hyperlipidaemia (FCH), characterized by elevated very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and/or low-density lipoprotein (LDL), is associated with an increased prevalence of premature cardiovascular disease. Therefore, lipid-lowering is frequently indicated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8829016
The long-term clinical benefits of lowering serum lipid levels have been demonstrated in multiple clinical trials in recent years. These include coronary artery disease regression and decreases in the incidence of adverse clinical events, such as myocardial infarction or refractory ischemia. Reductions in overall mortality have also been demonstrated. The health risk of dyslipidemia led the National Cholesterol Education Program expert panel to recommend intervention to bring low-density lipoprotein cholesterol values to within certain goal levels through a variety of interventions. This article reviews the available pharmacologic agents and compares their efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8829023
We compared the efficacy of two antihyperlipidemic drugs and the efficacy of diet plus exercise therapy in the treatment of patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia. The study included 48 patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia (serum total cholesterol [TC], 250 to 320 mg/dL). Patients were divided into three groups: group A--patients administered 10 mg/d of pravastatin; group B--patients administered 500 mg/d of probucol and 600 mg/d of pantethine; and group C--patients administered diet plus exercise therapy. The serum TC and serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) values were determined via enzymatic methods before initiation of each therapy and after 4 and 8 weeks of therapy. An atherogenic index (AI) was also calculated. The results indicated that TC showed a statistically significant decrease in all three groups at 4 and 8 weeks (P < 0.001 and P < 0.05, respectively); the HDL-C value did not change significantly in groups A and C, but it had a statistically significant decrease in group B at 4 and 8 weeks. The AI showed a statistically significant decrease in group A at 4 and 8 weeks of treatment and group C at 8 weeks; there were no significant changes in AI in group B. It may be concluded that as an antihyperlipidemic agent, pravastatin is more useful than probucol and that appropriate exercise and strict dietary management for 8 weeks achieve an efficacy close to that achieved by drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8829110
Hyperlipidemia is common after renal transplantation. In recent years, much progress has been made in understanding the causes and treatment of lipid abnormalities in renal transplant patients. Recently, short-term studies have shown that newer antilipemic agents appear to be safe and effective in treating hyperlipidemia in this population. Despite the absence of large, controlled clinical trials examining the effect of lipid-lowering strategies on cardiovascular disease and chronic renal allograft rejection, therapy appears to be warranted in renal transplant patients with an atherogenic lipid profile and multiple risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8830937
Hypercholesterolemia impairs arteriolar dilatation, but whether the vascular abnormalities accompanying this condition include large artery function is unknown. We addressed this issue in 13 normotensive subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia (serum cholesterol 401.6 +/- 16.9 mg/dl, mean +/- S.E., FHC) and no evidence of atherosclerotic lesions, in whom radial artery (RA) diameter and blood pressure (BP) were measured beat to beat by an echotracking and a Finapres device, respectively. RA compliance (RAC) was derived from the diameter/BP relationship and expressed over the systo-diastolic BP range, both at baseline and after a 12-min brachial artery occlusion. RAC was expressed also as the area under the RAC/BP curve divided for pulse BP. Measurements included maximal forearm blood flow (plethysmography) and minimal forearm vascular resistance (FVR) which were obtained from the values following the 12-min brachial arterial occlusion. Data were collected before and after 6- and 24-month lipid lowering treatment (simvastatin 40 mg/day). Ten age-matched normotensive normocholesterolemic healthy subjects (N) served as controls. Compared to N, baseline RAC was strikingly reduced in FHC (-53.5%, P < 0.01). After ischemia RAC increased significantly and markedly in N (+38.7, P < 0.01), while only a modest and non-significant increase was observed in FHC. Minimal FVR was markedly higher in FHC than in N (3.5 +/- 0.9 vs 1.6 +/- 0.1 units, P < 0.01). In FHC (7 subjects) RAC remained unchanged after 6 months of lipid lowering treatment, but increased markedly (+55.2%, p < 0.05) when treatment was prolonged to 24 months. Lipid lowering treatment also reduced minimal FVR, the effect being significant both after 6 and after 24 months. No changes in RAC and minimal FVR were seen after 6 months in controls. Thus, in subjects with a marked increase in serum cholesterol due to FHC, not only arteriolar dilatation, but also RAC and distensibility are markedly impaired. This impairment can be favourably affected by an effective lipid lowering treatment of long duration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8831932
Heterozygotes for familial defective apolipoprotein B-100 (FDB) have two populations of low density lipoprotein (LDL), one bearing normal apolipoprotein B-100 (apo B) and the other bearing defective apo B which exhibits a much lower affinity for the LDL-receptor. If HMGCoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin lowered LDL mainly by up-regulating LDL-receptor mediated clearance, they should decrease the overall binding affinity of LDL from an FDB heterozygote by selectively decreasing LDL bearing normal apo B. We compared how LDL from FDB heterozygotes competed with normal 125I-labelled LDL for binding to LDL-receptors while on and off therapy with simvastatin. The LDL of FDB heterozygotes had 40% (n = 10) the affinity of normal LDL (n = 12) for the LDL receptor on cultured fibroblasts, and 55% (n = 6) of normal LDL (n = 6) for that on HepG2 cells. Treatment of FDB subjects with simvastatin (n = 10) decreased serum LDL by 22% but had no effect on its binding affinity for LDL receptors, indicative of lowering of LDL containing both normal and defective apo B. This is consistent with the major LDL lowering effect being associated with decreased synthesis of LDL, rather than enhanced LDL-receptor clearance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8832603
Experimental and clinical studies have demonstrated a positive relationship between hyperlipidemia and rate of progression of renal disease, suggesting that lipids can induce or aggravate glomerular injury mainly by interacting with mesangial cells. Nevertheless, recently has been demonstrated that increased cholesterol levels can also induce endothelial cell dysfunction. Thus, since endothelium is known to play a major role in modulating the vascular tone, we have tested the possibility that hypercholesterolemia impairs the renal hemodynamics in patients with active nephrotic syndrome and elevated serum cholesterol levels. In this single-blind, nonrandom study, 12 patients were treated with pravastatin (group T, treated, n = 12) and 8 with placebo (group C, controls, n = 8). The controls were studied after the pravastatin group had been completed. Before starting the treatment the patients underwent basal determinations including routine laboratory investigations and PAH and inulin clearances. The same determinations were repeated after 48 h, and 6 and 12 weeks from the beginning of the treatment. The study at 48 h was performed to see if pravastatin had a direct, cholesterol-independent effect on renal function. The following basal results were reported (mean +/- SEM; group T vs. group C): serum cholesterol (mmol/l) 9.7 +/- 0.4 vs. 9.1 +/- 0.3 (NS); proteinuria (g/24 h): 6.2 +/- 0.2 vs. 7.0 +/- 0.7 (NS); PAH clearance (ml/min): 353 +/- 21 vs. 385 +/- 31 (NS); inulin clearance (ml/min): 62.5 +/- 7.7 vs. 67 +/- 9.3 (NS). After 48 h, no changes were observed in both groups. Subsequently, in group T, the following percentage changes of basal levels were observed: serum cholesterol -21.4 +/- 3.2% at 6 weeks (p < 0.05) and -34.9 +/- 3.2% at 12 weeks (p < 0.01); inulin clearance +3 +/- 3.7% at 6 weeks (NS) and +9.3 +/- 2.9% at 12 weeks (p < 0.05); PAH clearance +7 +/- 3.1% at 6 weeks (p < 0.05) and +21.2 +/- 5.5% at 12 weeks (p < 0.01). By contrast, no significant changes of these parameters occurred in group C at any time, so that the percent changes of baseline values of CPAH were significantly greater in group T (at 6 weeks: p < 0.05; at 12 weeks p < 0.005). These results indicate that the reduction of cholesterol is associated with a significant increase in renal plasma flow, thus, suggesting that hypercholesterolemia may actually impair the renal hemodynamics. We speculate that this effect may contribute to increase the risk of ischemic acute renal failure in nephrotic patients and, along with changes induced in the mesangium by other mechanisms, to contribute to the progression of renal disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8840302
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8840836
Lipid-lowering therapy reduces cardiac morbidity and mortality. Less is known about its potential anti-ischemic effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8843892
We undertook this prospective double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of low-dose (15 mg) pravastatin in elderly hypercholesterolemic hypertensive subjects with concurrent antihypertensive treatment and to determine whether fasting hyperinsulinemia could also be improved. At three hypertension and lipid clinics of two medical centers, 96 elderly (49 women, 47 men) ambulatory subjects were randomized to active treatment or placebo for 12 months after a 3-month single-blind lead-in period. Hypertensive subjects with plasma total cholesterol levels of at least 6.47 mmol/L (250 mg/dL) and triglyceride levels less than 3.39 mmol/L (300 mg/dL) were treated with 15 mg pravastatin for 12 months after receiving 3 months of the American Heart Association step I diet. Lipid, glucose, and fasting insulin levels were measured; clinical laboratory tests included liver function and creatine kinase determinations. After 12 months of pravastatin therapy, plasma total cholesterol concentration decreased by 25.1% (from a mean of 7.29 to 5.47 mmol/L, P < .05), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol decreased by 30.2% (from 5.27 to 3.68 mmol/L, P < .05), and triglycerides decreased by 10.7% (from 1.68 to 1.50 mmol/L, P < .05). High-density lipoprotein cholesterol increased by 9.2% (from 1.20 to 1.31 mmol/L, P < .05). Fasting insulin levels decreased from 89.0 to 61.5 pmol/L (P < .05). All of these changes were greater (P < .05) than any tendency toward change in the placebo group. Adverse events and clinical laboratory abnormalities were generally mild and transient in both placebo and pravastatin groups. Study drugs were withdrawn from one subject in each group with asymptomatic creatine kinase elevations. We conclude that low-dose pravastatin was effective and safe in the treatment of hypercholesterolemic hypertensive subjects on concurrent antihypertensive therapy. It also improved fasting hyperinsulinemia despite the use of beta-blockers and diuretics in these hypertensive subjects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8844442
The pharmacodynamic effects and pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin, a potent investigational inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, were studied in 16 normolipidemic subjects after administration of 40 mg daily for 15 days in the morning or evening. Lipid and apolipoprotein parameters were determined, and plasma atorvastatin equivalent concentrations were measured according to a validated enzyme inhibition bioassay procedure. Atorvastatin was well tolerated by the participants. Overall, mean reductions of 34% in total cholesterol, 48% in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, 37% in very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol, 25% in triglycerides, 6% in apolipoprotein A-I, and 34% in apolipoprotein B were observed. Changes in lipid and apolipoprotein values were similar after morning and evening administration of atorvastatin. In contrast, studies with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have consistently shown that evening administration results in larger reductions in total and LDL cholesterol than does morning administration. Rate and extent of equivalent absorption of atorvastatin were lower during evening than morning administration. Mean elimination half-life values were similar, however, suggesting that there is no diurnal variation in disposition of this drug. Pharmacokinetic differences did not correlate with effects on serum lipids.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8845726
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8847874
In 12 weeks of active treatment, we compared the efficacy and safety of a new (micronized) formulation of fenofibrate (F) (200 mg/day) with that of simvastatin (S) (20 mg/day), an inhibitor of hydroxy-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA)-reductase. Men and women with primary hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP) with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level 180-300 mg/dl and triglyceride level < 500 mg/dl had dietary treatment for 8 weeks, and 133 (2 of 3 type IIa, 1 of 3 type IIb HLP) were randomized. The decrease in total cholesterol differed between type IIa patients (F - 17.9 vs. S - 25.8%), the decrease in triglyceride levels between the type II b groups (F - 52.8 vs. S - 14%), whereas the degree of decrease in LDL cholesterol (F - 20.9 vs. S - 34.9%) differed among all patients. Despite the difference in LDL cholesterol decrease, no difference was noted in total apolipoprotein (apo) B lowering (F - 20.8 and S - 26.5%). Increases in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (F + 18.5 vs. S + 15%) differed specifically in type IIb patients (F + 33.6 vs. S + 11.4%), accompanied by a more pronounced increase in apo AI with fenofibrate (F + 10.5% vs. S no change). Improvement in the ratios of total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol and apo AI/apo B occurred similarly with both drugs. Only fenofibrate, not simvastatin, decreased both fibrinogen (-10.3 vs. + 3.6%) and uric acid (-25% vs. no change) in type IIa and type IIb patients. Safety parameters reflected drug-specific known side effects, underscoring the safety of both drugs in addition to their efficacy in lipid lowering. Besides its advantages in type IIb hyperlipidemia, micronized fenofibrate proved a potent drug in decreasing total and LDL cholesterol and in very effectively decreasing apo B-containing lipoproteins, which is a recommendation for its use in primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8853585
Niacin has been used for many years to treat hyperlipidemia. It has been shown to reduce coronary death and non-fatal myocardial infarction and, in a separate analysis of long-term (15-year) follow-up, all cause mortality. It reduces total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and triglycerides and increases high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Sustained-release niacin may be associated with more dramatic changes in LDL-C and triglyceride, whereas the short acting preparation causes greater increases in HDL-C. The increase of HDL-C occurs at a lower dose (1500 mg/day) than the reduction of LDL-C (> 1500 mg/day). Niacin also favorably influences other lipid parameters including lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)], alimentary lipemia, familial defective apolipoprotein B-100 and small dense LDL. Combination of niacin with a bile acid sequestrant or a reductase inhibitor represents a powerful lipid-altering regimen. Whereas the reductase inhibitors and bile acid binding resins primarily affect LDL-C, the combined therapy has a synergistic effect to reduce LDL-C and, in addition, the niacin reduces triglycerides and increases HDL-C. The major drawback in the use of niacin is associated side effects (flushing and palpitations) and toxicity (worsening of diabetes control, exacerbation of peptic ulcer disease, gout, hepatitis). Niacin has a long history of use as a lipid lowering agent and has several attractive features. Unfortunately, the side effect profile of this agent warrants its use only in patients with marked dyslipidemia in whom side effects and potential toxicity are closely monitored.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8857479
To evaluate the effects of short-term cholesterol-lowering treatment on myocardial effort ischemia, 22 patients with stable effort ischemia and mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia (low density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol 160 to 220 mg/dl) were randomly allocated at baseline (TO) in 2 groups. Group A included 12 patients treated with simvastatin 10 mg bid; group B included 10 patients treated with placebo. All patients underwent a treadmill electrocardiography (ECG) test; total cholesterol, HDL and LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, plasma, and blood viscosity were measured. All tests were repeated after 4 and 12 weeks. For 18 of the same patients (11 taking simvastatin, 7 receiving placebo), forearm strain-gouge plethysmography was performed at baseline and after 4 weeks, both at rest and during reactive hyperemia. At 4 and 12 weeks, group A showed a significant reduction in total cholesterol (p <0.05) and LDL (p <0.05), with unchanged HDL, triglycerides, blood, and plasma viscosity. Effort was unmodified, ST-segment depression at peak effort and ischemic threshold were significantly improved after 4 and 12 weeks (all p <0.05) with unchanged heart rate x systolic blood pressure product. A significant increase in the excess flow response to reactive hyperemia was detected in group A (p <0.03); group B showed no changes in hematochemical and ergometric parameters. These data suggest that cholesterol-lowering treatment is associated with an improvement in myocardial effort ischemia; this might be explained by a more pronounced increase of coronary blood flow and capacity of vasodilation in response to effort.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8857853
The authors assessed the clinical results of lipid-lowering therapy in women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8860062
We sought to identify differences in the description of adverse drug experiences in reports of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) from the United States and Japan, using diclofenac and simvastatin as test drugs. Reports were identified in Medline (Index Medicus 1966-1990), EMBASE (Excerpta Medica 1974-1990), JAPICDOC (1979-1990), and JOIS-III (JMEDICINE 1980-1990). In each search keywords describing study design were paired with the drugs' generic names, chemical names, and development numbers. Twenty-seven U.S. reports (18 for diclofenac and 9 for simvastatin) and 22 Japanese reports (17 for diclofenac and 5 for simvastatin) identified in these four databases were selected for review. For each paper we identified the relation of the article to the data (preliminary, primary, and secondary reports, reviews), the means of identifying adverse reactions, the principal outcomes of the trials, and a variety of descriptive measures relating to study design, authorship, and elements of presentation. With few exceptions, Japanese reports were not indexed in English-language databases, and studies from the United States were not carried out in the Japanese databases. The Japanese literature consisted exclusively of primary reports of clinical trials, whereas the U.S. literature was dominated by review articles and secondary reports of data from trials not fully published elsewhere. Japanese reports contained more detail on adverse experiences but reported principally those attributed to the drugs by attending clinicians. U.S. reports by contrast offered little detail but tended to include all adverse experiences, whether or not clinically attributed to drugs. A preponderance of U.S. articles reported significant differences between drugs in safety or treatment efficacy, whereas only one third of the Japanese articles did so for the same agents. Reports from both countries offered few details of the methods used to gather information on adverse drug experiences, and as a result the reported absolute frequencies of such events are difficult to compare between trials or to generalize to other settings. In conclusion, the reporting of adverse reactions in clinical trials is inadequate in both the United States and Japanese literature. The shortcomings are complementary in that reports of U.S. trials contain insufficient detail and Japanese reports do not interpret or synthesize experience. Clinical research into drug safety in both countries could be improved through the adoption of simple standards of clarity and consistency in the monitoring and reporting of drug adverse effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8860708
The beneficial effect of cholesterol-lowering therapy for secondary prevention in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) is well established. The therapeutic goal in this situation is a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level of 100 mg/dl. Cholesterol-lowering therapy will not only lead to a reduction in the progression of lesions but also and probably more importantly will reduce lesion activation and rupture and improve endothelial vasomotor function. Depending on the underlying hyperlipoproteinemia, the first choice for single drug therapy is a bile acid-binding resin or a hepatic hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor in isolated LDL hypercholesterolemia, and nicotinic acid, a fibric acid, or a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor in combined hyperlipidemia. Combination therapy usually consists of a bile acid-binding resin with either an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, a fibric acid, or nicotinic acid in LDL hypercholesterolemia and nicotinic acid with a fibric acid in combined hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8860713
Elevated lipoprotein concentrations seem to be linked strongly in a dose dependent manner to an increased incidence of atherosclerosis. A total of 47 patients suffering from severe hyperlipidemia were matched to treatment with LDL apheresis (Baxter, Kaneka, Lipopak; 24 patients, aged 50.2 + or - 11.5 years), diet, and/or lipid-lowering drugs or with diet and lipid-lowering drugs only (23 patients, aged 48.8 + or - 11.8 years). After treatment periods of 49.8 + or - 13.4 months (apheresis group, 2,396 treatment sessions) and 38.6 + or - 15.1 months (drug group), the ensuing results revealed significant differences (p < 0.0001): -47.3% versus -12.1% for total cholesterol, -46.9% versus -21.8% for LDL, +8.4% versus +0.9% for HDL, -52.0% versus -13.1% for the LDL/HDL ratio, -36.4% versus - 16.2% for triglycerides, and -25.9% versus + 1.5% for lipoprotein (a). In the apheresis group, one patient died of myocardial infarction; in the drug group, there was one nonfatal myocardial infarction and the manifestation of coronary heart disease in 3 cases. There were no severe side effects in either group. All patients in the apheresis group responded to therapy. The present trial suggests that a continuing reduction in serum lipid concentrations may lower, in a dose dependent manner, the risk for development and progression of coronary heart disease. Regarding clinical and laboratory results, LDL apheresis seems to be safe, effective therapy for treatment of severe hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8862101
Long-term safety is an important consideration in the selection and use of drugs, such as lipid-lowering agents, that are prescribed to reduce the risk of clinical events during long periods.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8862691
The incidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease is greatly increased in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes (NIDDM). The most frequent lipoprotein abnormalities in this type of diabetes are an increase in triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and a decrease in high-density lipoproteins. Hypertriglyceridaemia appears to be a stronger coronary heart disease risk factor in patients with NIDDM than in nondiabetic subjects. Plasma total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in NIDDM patients and nondiabetic subjects do not differ. Hypercholesterolaemia is, however, as powerful a predictor of coronary heart disease risk in diabetic patients as in nondiabetic subjects. In spite of this knowledge, there is to date no solid evidence to indicate whether correction of dyslipoproteinaemia in order to reduce coronary heart disease risk in patients with NIDDM is more, equally, or less beneficial than it is in nondiabetic subjects. The only available data come from post-hoc subgroup analyses of the Helsinki Heart Study and the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S). Other trials including patients with diabetes are in progress. Only one intervention trial (currently in its treatment phase), the Diabetes Atherosclerosis Intervention Study (DAIS), is specifically designed to examine the lipid hypothesis in patients with NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8864316
1. We tested whether lipid lowering treatment with HMG CoA reductase inhibitor modified the flow mediated large artery reactivity in primary pure hypercholesterolaemia. 2. Abnormalities in arterial reactivity have been described in the presence of high blood cholesterol, in particular an enhanced constriction of the brachial artery in response to acute induction of a low flow state. 3. Using pulsed-Doppler, we measured brachial artery diameter and flow velocity at rest and their changes induced by wrist occlusion before and after 3 months of double-blind treatment by pravastatin (40 mg orally) in 13 subjects and placebo in 15 others. 4. The significant decrease (P < 0.01) in diameter induced by wrist occlusion before (0.34 +/- 0.08 mm) placebo and pravastatin (0.39 +/- 0.10 mm) persisted after placebo (0.26 +/- 0.07 mm) but was abolished after pravastatin (0.07 +/- 0.05 mm). The absolute change in diameter induced by wrist occlusion was lower after than before pravastatin (P < 0.01) and lower after pravastin than after placebo (P < 0.05). Diameter during the wrist occlusion was higher after pravastatin than after placebo (4.35 +/- 0.16 vs 3.89 +/- 0.09 mm); P < 0.01). 5. These findings indicate that the lipid changes induced by pravastatin and/or some unknown but direct mechanism of the drug itself inhibit low-flow-mediated vasoconstriction associated with hypercholesterolaemia. Such effects may have important implications for the treatment of vasospasm often seen in the presence of high blood cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8864962
Effectiveness of a simultaneous inhibition of cholesterol absorption and synthesis, caused by sitostanol ester margarine and pravastatin, was studied to control mild hypercholesterolemia in men with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) (n = 8). Margarine, 24 g daily, was a basal dietary treatment. Four 7-week intervention periods included margarine, sitostanol (3 g/day) ester margarine, pravastatin (40 mg/day), and sitostanol ester margarine plus pravastatin in a random order. Pravastatin lowered serum total (-32%) and LDL cholesterol (-38%) and apolipoprotein B (-39%) because of enhanced removal (+20%) and decreased production (-26%) of LDL apolipoprotein B, and reduced synthesis (-9%) and turnover (-8%) of cholesterol, which resulted in reduced biliary cholesterol seretion (-18%). Even though serum triglycerides were lowered by 28%, VLDL, IDL, and light and dense LDL became triglyceride-enriched. Despite increasing cholesterol synthesis, sitostanol lowered LDL cholesterol (-14%) by inhibiting cholesterol absorption (-68%) and LDL apolipoprotein B production rate (-20%). Combination of pravastatin and sitostanol ester lowered serum total, VLDL, IDL, and LDL cholesterol and LDL apolipoprotein B by the highest rate, 35%, 50%, 35%, 44%, and 45% from the control margarine period, respectively, because of reduced apolipoprotein B transport rate (but unchanged removal), in both the total and dense LDL subfractions. HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I kinetics were unchanged. In spite of decreased absorption, cholesterol synthesis was not compensatorily increased. In conclusion, simultaneous inhibition of cholesterol absorption and synthesis lowers LDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein B by 44-45% solely through inhibition of LDL apolipoprotein B production rate in hypercholesterolemic NIDDM patients. A combination of statin to sitostanol ester margarine-resistant patients offers a safe and effective measure to normalize abnormally high cholesterol values, probably with a lowered statin dose.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8865302
Natural products have served as a major source of drugs for centuries, and about half of the pharmaceuticals in use today are derived from natural products. The aim of this review is to provide an overview of the continuing central role of natural products in the discovery and development of new pharmaceuticals. In this context, selected examples of important natural product-derived drugs are cited, focusing on some of the most recent introductions to the clinical setting, and a brief overview of some of the important recent developments and remaining challenges in the process of discovering and developing bioactive natural products is provided. Interest in natural products research is strong and can be attributed to several factors, including unmet therapeutic needs, the remarkable diversity of both chemical structures and biological activities of naturally occurring secondary metabolites, the utility of bioactive natural products as biochemical and molecular probes, the development of novel and sensitive techniques to detect biologically active natural products, improved techniques to isolate, purify, and structurally characterize these active constituents, and advances in solving the demand for supply of complex natural products. Opportunities for multidisciplinary research that joins the forces of natural products chemistry, molecular and cellular biology, synthetic and analytical chemistry, biochemistry, and pharmacology to exploit the vast diversity of chemical structures and biological activities of natural products are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8865916
We compared the lipid-lowering effects of simvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, and gemfibrozil, a fibric acid derivative, in 22 continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients whose serum total cholesterol and/or triglyceride levels were > or = 220 mg/dL after a standard diet for six months. The study group was first treated with gemfibrozil (600 mg/b.i.d.) for three months (stage 1). After a wash-out period of two months, during which no treatment was given, all of the patients became hyperlipidemic again and, therefore, were given simvastatin (10 mg/day) for three months (stage 2), which was followed by another two-month wash-out period. A control group, which served to evaluate the natural progression of pharmacologically untreated dyslipidemia, was followed during the same period. Blood determinations of triglyceride, total cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol were performed after each step. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and HDL ratio were calculated from the measured values. Both gemfibrozil and simvastatin improved all parameters of the lipid profile, but the effect of simvastatin was better than that of gemfibrozil (-69 vs -39 mg/dL for triglyceride and -95 vs -64 mg/dL for cholesterol), while their actions on LDL and HDL cholesterol were of equal magnitude. Two months after discontinuation of simvastatin, significant decreases of total cholesterol (-46 mg/dL) and triglyceride (-60 mg/dL) were still present, while these values had returned to pretreatment levels after stopping gemfibrozil. The HDL ratio remained markedlyhigher (p < 0.05) during the wash-out period after simvastatin, while it decreased to pretreatment values after gemfibrozil was stopped. The lipid profile of the control group did not change during the follow-up. Both drugs were well tolerated, and no serious side effects occurred.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8866629
In order to determine whether there is a difference in the effect of the hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor pravastatin on cholesterol synthesis between the morning and the evening, we studied the 24-h profile of mevalonate in plasma and urine in 11 subjects with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. In study 1, eight subjects with familial hypercholesterolaemia took pravastatin (20 mg) once in the morning, and another 20-mg dose in the evening after a 1-week wash-out period. In study 2, five subjects with familial hypercholesterolaemia took pravastatin (20 mg per day) in the morning on 3 consecutive days and on 3 days in the evening after a 1 day wash-out. Plasma mevalonate concentrations were reduced at 9 h and 5 h after pravastatin administration in the morning and the evening, respectively. Urinary mevalonate excretion was significantly reduced at 4-8 h after pravastatin administration in the morning (51 vs 19 nmol.h-1) and at 4-16 h after pravastatin administration in the evening (56 vs 27 nmol.h-1). Daily urinary mevalonate excretion was equally and significantly reduced by pravastatin in the morning or evening. In conclusion, we found that morning and evening administration of pravastatin caused equal reductions in plasma and urinary mevalonate concentrations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8872133
Plasma levels of fibrinogen, factor VIIc and prothrombin fragment F1 + 2, a marker of thrombin generation in vivo, were studied in 68 subjects with serum total cholesterol (TC) levels between 135 and 349 mg/dl but without clinical evidence of cardiovascular disease and other atherosclerotic risk factors. F1 + 2 plasma levels were directly correlated with TC (p < 0.0004), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C; p < 0.0018) and factor VIIc (p < 0.024). Thirty-five subjects with TC greater than 249 mg/dl (median value of the whole group) showed higher levels of F1 + 2 (p < 0.0001) and fibrinogen (p < 0.0015) than those with TC lower than 249 mg/dl. In subjects with TC > 249 mg/dl and F1 + 2 > 1.2 nM (median value of the whole group), a cholesterol-lowering drug (simvastatin) was able to reduce F1 + 2 (p < 0.009) as well as TC and LDL-C. This study shows a relationship between serum cholesterol and the rate of thrombin generation supporting the hypothesis that a hypercoagulable state may occur in hypercholesterolemic subjects before the onset of clinical evidence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8873668
Many patients suffering from premature coronary artery disease report a family history for such events. A mutation in a particular gene, which confers susceptibility for atherosclerosis, will be found more frequently in individuals suffering from coronary atherosclerosis than in the general population. We have recently reported the identification of an Asp9 Asn substitution in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) enzyme. We analyzed the impact of this mutation on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis and the effect of pravastatin in both carriers and noncarriers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8874986
Although thrombolytic drugs, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, and coronary artery bypass grafting have provided major advances in the treatment of coronary artery disease, the use of lipid-lowering drugs for secondary prevention has significantly reduced cardiovascular events in the population with coronary artery disease. Secondary prevention trials using HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors include the Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (FATS), the Monitored Atherosclerosis Regression Study (MARS), the Canadian Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (CCAIT), the Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Progression Study (ACAPS), the Multi Anti-Atheroma Study (MAAS), the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), the Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in Coronary Arteries (PLAC I), the Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS), the Pravastatin Multinational Study, and the Pravastatin, Lipids, and Atherosclerosis in Carotids (PLAC II). Mean changes from baseline of lipid fractions in these trials included: total cholesterol 18 to 35% reduction; low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol 26 to 46% reduction; high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol 5 to 15% increase; and triglyceride 7 to 22% reduction. Angiographic regression or lack of progression was statistically demonstrated in the FATS, MARS, CCAIT, MAAS, PLAC I, and REGRESS trials. Cardiovascular events decreased 25 to 92% in all trials, and there was a significant reduction in both cardiovascular and total mortality in the 4S. The greater reduction in cardiovascular events than in anatomic changes suggests that the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors stabilized the surface of plaques. Monotherapy with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors provides the clinical opportunity to modify the natural history of coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8875112
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8875973
More than $100 billion is spent in the United States each year on cardiovascular disease, primarily for hospitalizations and revascularization procedures. This is more than for any other disease state. As the clinical practice of medicine shifts from the paradigm of private practice to the managed care environment, cost-effectiveness is becoming increasingly important. A primary measure in analyzing cost-effectiveness is the cost-effectiveness ratio, or the dollar cost per unit of improvement for a given expenditure. This measure allows healthcare planners to compare completely different interventions. With approximately 52 million adult U.S. citizens having elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels, lipid-lowering therapy---with diet or 3-hydroxy-3methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors---is an important consideration for primary care physicians and managed care providers. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) III indicates that 75-88% of adults who have coronary artery disease (CAD) risk factors or CAD require only a moderate (20--30%) reduction in LDL cholesterol levels to reach National Cholesterol Education Program goals. The clinical literature shows that all 4 of the currently available HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors can provide appropriate, moderate LDL cholesterol reductions within their recommended dosage ranges. For the majority of patients who need a 20--30% reduction in LDL cholesterol, fluvastatin 20 or 40 mg once daily provides the most cost-effective HMG-CoA therapy, expressed as cost of therapy per 1% LDL cholesterol reduction. For patients who need a >30% LDL cholesterol reduction, a high-dose HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (e.g., simvastatin 20 or 40 mg/day) or a combination of a lower-dose HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor and a bile acid resin is the preferred initial therapy. Although a true cost-effectiveness analysis would incorporate morbidity and mortality data from clinical trials, analysis using intermediate endpoints, such as LDL cholesterol reduction, suggests that fluvastatin is the preferred initial HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for the treatment of moderate hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8876936
In eight patients with familial hypercholesterolemia the effects of two lipid reducing drugs on subpopulations of high density lipoproteins (HDL) were examined. After a 14-week period of diet and diet/placebo a 12-week therapy followed with either bezafibrate (CAS 41859-67-0) or fluvastatin (CAS 93957-55-2). Throughout both treatments a significant decrease of total and low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol, apolipoprotein B and triglycerides during both therapies were noted as well as an insignificant increase of HDL-cholesterol during bezafibrate. The nondenaturating gradient gel electrophoresis is a valid method for the investigation of the behaviour of HDL and was therefore chosen for this investigation. The individual HDL pattern and HDL diameters did not change in these subjects. The effect on the amounts of HDL 3b and HDL 3c was significantly more extensive during fluvastatin (+2.4% resp. + 2.9%) as compared to during bezafibrate therapy (+1.7% resp. + 2.9%). The changes noted in the HDL subclasses are probably due to a variable lipoprotein metabolism, for example increased activity of lipoprotein lipase, hepatic triglyceride lipase, lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase and cholesterol ester transfer protein.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8877024
1. Statins inhibit synthesis of mevalonate, a precursor of ubiquinone that is a central compound of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The main adverse effect of statins is a toxic myopathy possibly related to mitochondrial dysfunction. 2. This study was designed to evaluate the effect of lipid-lowering drugs on ubiquinone (coenzyme Q10) serum level and on mitochondrial function assessed by blood lactate/pyruvate ratio. 3. Eighty hypercholesterolaemic patients (40 treated by statins, 20 treated by fibrates, and 20 untreated patients, all 80 having total cholesterol levels > 6.0 mmol l-1) and 20 healthy controls were included. Ubiquinone serum level and blood lactate/pyruvate ratio used as a test for mitochondrial dysfunction were evaluated in all subjects. 4. Lactate/pyruvate ratios were significantly higher in patients treated by statins than in untreated hypercholesterolaemic patients or in healthy controls (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001). The difference was not significant between fibratetreated patients and untreated patients. 5. Ubiquinone serum levels were lower in statin-treated patients (0.75 mg l-1 +/- 0.04) than in untreated hypercholesterolaemic patients (0.95 mg l-1 +/- 0.09; P < 0.05). 6. We conclude that statin therapy can be associated with high blood lactate/ pyruvate ratio suggestive of mitochondrial dysfunction. It is uncertain to what extent low serum levels of ubiquinone could explain the mitochondrial dysfunction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8877677
Tolerance and pharmacokinetics after single-dose administration of atorvastatin, an investigational inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, were examined in 22 healthy volunteers in a three-period, partially-blinded study. Participants received capsule and solution doses of atorvastatin (0.5 to 120 mg) and placebo at weekly intervals. Atorvastatin was well tolerated at doses as high as 80 mg. The adverse event profile was similar after administration of atorvastatin capsules and placebo. Atorvastatin solution was slightly less well tolerated. The most common side effect after administration of capsules and solution was headache, followed by sporadic reports of diarrhea, flatulence, and nausea. At the 120-mg solution dose, one participant experienced mild, transient restlessness, euphoria, and mental confusion that were considered to be dose-limiting side effects. Mean concentrations of atorvastatin, maximum concentration (Cmax), and area under the concentration-time curve from time 0 to the time of the last detectable concentration (AUCo-tldc) increased with increasing dose. Plasma elimination half-life (t1/2) ranged from 14.7 to 57.6 hours. The bioavailability of atorvastatin capsules was similar to that of solution. These results suggest that atorvastatin is well tolerated after single doses as high as 80 mg, and may require administration only once daily.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8878387
This study was designed to determine the frequency of hyperlipidemia after orthotopic liver transplantation and whether treatment with a hydroxy-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor was safe and efficacious. Cholesterol levels were assessed in 45 consecutive adult liver transplants (mean +/- SE). Four of 22 patients on cyclosporine (CsA) (18%) and three of 23 patients on FK506 (13%) had levels >225 mg/dl at 12 months (cholesterol levels for patients on CsA [total n=22]: pre-Tx = 140+/-11, 1 month = 183+/-36,3 months = 221+/-12, 6 months = 211+/-11, 12 months = 202+/-14 [P<0.01 vs. pre-Tx]; FK506 [total n=23]: Pre-Tx = 151+/-13, 1 month = 187+/-22, 3 months = 188+/-10, 6 months = 184+/-13, 12 months = 164+/-9 [P=0.02 vs. CsA]). A separate cohort of patients with stable graft function, cholesterol >225 mg/dl, and two additional risk factors for coronary artery disease were started on pravastatin. Ninety-eight patients were enrolled. Sixteen patients (16%) discontinued the drug because of subjective complaints. No episodes of rhabdomyolysis or hepatotoxicity occurred (cholesterol levels for patients on CsA [total n=65]: pretreatment = 251+/-7, 6 months = 220+/-7 [P=0.01 vs. pretreatment], 12 months = 224+/-8 [P=0.01 vs. pretreatment]; FK506 [total n=17]: pretreatment = 251+/-17, 6 months = 219+/-17, 12 months = 208+/-17 [P=0.08 vs. pretreatment]). Natural killer cells isolated from normal volunteers (n=14) exhibited 27+/-9% specific lysis. Patients on FK506 or cyclosporine-based immunosuppression alone (n=11) exhibited 20+/-4% specific lysis. Standard immunosuppression plus pravastatin (n=10) decreased lysis to 0.2+/-10% (P<0.02 vs. controls and standard immunosuppression). We conclude: (1) posttransplant hyperlipidemia occurs less frequently in liver transplant patients than in renal or cardiac transplants; (2) pravastatin is safe and efficacious for cholesterol reduction in liver transplant patients; and (3) pravastatin coadministered with standard immunosuppression reduces natural killer cell-specific lysis in these recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8879334
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8879953
Several studies have shown that effective lipid-lowering therapy slows the progression of atherosclerotic lesions in the coronary and carotid arteries. Recent clinical trials have confirmed and extended previous work showing that lowering cholesterol reduces the risk of coronary events. A clear reduction in major coronary events during treatment for 5 years with the hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor pravastatin was observed in the West of Scotland study and in the preliminary results of the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events study. The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study has provided the first unequivocal demonstration of improved survival as a result of lipid-lowering therapy. These three trials, which together included over 15,000 patients studied for 5 years, have provided good evidence that noncardiovascular mortality is not affected by substantial reductions in blood cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8881840
To examine the atherogenic risk-reducing effect of bezafibrate and lovastatin. DESIGN, SETTING, PATIENTS, INTERVENTIONS: Double-blind, randomized clinical trial of male and female patients with moderate hypercholesterolaemia with or without hypertriglyceridaemia. Two months dietary treatment followed by 400 mg sustained release bezafibrate every day or 20 mg lovastatin every day for 6 months. Patients recruited (n = 561) and treated (n = 524) by primary care physicians throughout Austria.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8882381
Fluvastatin, a member of the group of drugs known as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, is used in the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolaemia. In clinical trials in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia, fluvastatin 20 or 40 mg/day achieved marked reductions from baseline in serum levels of low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (19 to 31%) and total cholesterol (15 to 21%), along with modest declines in serum triglyceride levels (1 to 12%) and small increases in high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels (2 to 10%). These beneficial effects on the serum lipid profile were similar to those demonstrated with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, although direct comparative trials are limited. Concomitant administration of fluvastatin plus another lipid-lowering agent, such as a bile acid sequestrant, a fibrate or nicotinic acid, usually reduced serum levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol by at least a further 5 to 10% from baseline compared with fluvastatin monotherapy. Fluvastatin has a similar tolerability profile to that of other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Gastrointestinal disturbances, which are usually mild and transient, were the most frequently reported adverse events with fluvastatin in clinical trials. Persistent elevation of serum transaminase levels occurred in approximately 1% of fluvastatin recipients, which is similar to the rate for other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Unlike other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, which have been infrequently associated with myopathy and rarely with rhabdomyolysis, these events have not been associated with fluvastatin to date, although fluvastatin has not been used as extensively as agents such as lovastatin. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors other than fluvastatin, when given in combination with drugs such as fibrates, nicotinic acid, cyclosporin or erythromycin, can increase the risk of these potentially serious adverse events. Thus far, myopathy or rhabdomyolysis have not been reported among patients receiving fluvastatin concomitantly with any of these drugs. Therefore, fluvastatin can be given with caution in combination with fibrates, nicotinic acid, cyclosporin or erythromycin. In conclusion, fluvastatin has similar efficacy and tolerability profiles to other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, which are among the most effective agents available for treating patients with hypercholesterolaemia. Pharmacoeconomic studies performed to date suggest an advantage for fluvastatin over other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, predominantly because of its relatively low acquisition costs (at least in those countries in which the evaluations were conducted). Thus, fluvastatin is effective and well tolerated in patients with hypercholesterolaemia and appears to have an economic advantage over other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, primarily as a result of its relatively low acquisition costs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8883496
Low HDL levels are inversely related to risk for coronary heart disease. Several different mechanisms may account for this relationship. First, low HDL levels may be directly atherogenic; second, a low HDL often denotes high levels of other atherogenic lipoproteins (for example, remnants); and third, a low HDL frequently accompanies other coronary risk factors (for example, insulin resistance, diabetes, and raised blood pressure). This multiplicity of relationships probably explains the power of low HDL levels to predict acute coronary events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8891888
Pharmacological treatment of hyperlipidemia may be associated with deterioration of glucose tolerance. We randomized 20 nonobese patients with primary familial hypercholesterolemia (serum total cholesterol 7.8 +/- 0.4 mM, triglycerides 1.4 +/- 0.2 mM) to an isocaloric, reduced fat (< 30%) low-cholesterol (200 mg/day) diet with placebo or pravastatin (40 mg/day). Oral glucose tolerance, endogenous insulin response to glucose, insulin sensitivity (determined by the euglycemic insulin clamp technique), hepatic glucose production (by the tritiated glucose technique), and substrate utilization (by indirect calorimetry) were measured at baseline and after 8 weeks of treatment. Ten normocholesterolemic healthy subjects, matched to the patients by age, sex, and body weight, served as the control group. Diet alone (with no change in body weight) was associated with a significant 15% decrease in both serum low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol and triglycerides (p < 0.001 for both), and a slight decrease in high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol concentrations, paralleled by reductions in Apo B, C2, C3, and E levels (p < 0.05 or less). The addition of pravastatin led to a significantly larger reduction in LDL-cholesterol (30%, p < 0.05) and an 8% increase (p < 0.02) in total HDL-cholesterol concentrations. Accordingly, the ratio of LDL:HDL cholesterol (which was 60% higher than in controls at baseline) remained unchanged in the placebo-diet group whereas it was restored to normal in the pravastatin-diet group. Glucose tolerance, insulin response, insulin-induced inhibition of hepatic glucose production and lipolysis, and insulin-mediated glucose uptake and oxidation were all slightly but not significantly improved after treatment, with no significant differences between pravastatin and placebo. In nonobese patients with primary hypercholesterolemia, pravastatin treatment in combination with an isocaloric, reduced-fat diet leads to a marked reduction in LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides levels and a normalization of the LDL:HDL ratio without affecting glucose tolerance or insulin sensitivity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8904621
1. It has been suggested that lipophilic HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, like lovastatin and simvastatin, may cause sleep disturbance. 2. Six hundred and twenty-one patients at increased risk of coronary heart disease were randomized in a single centre to receive 40 mg daily simvastatin, 20 mg daily simvastatin or matching placebo. To assess the effects of prolonged use of simvastatin on nocturnal sleep quality and duration, a sleep questionnaire was administered to 567 patients (95% of 595 survivors) at an average of 88 weeks (range: 44-129 weeks) after randomization. 3. The main outcome measures were sleep-related problems and use of sleep-enhancing medications reported during routine study follow-up visits, and responses to the sleep questionnaire about changes in sleep duration and about various sleep events during the preceding month. 4. No differences were observed between the treatment groups in the frequency of sleep-related problems reported, in the proportion of follow-up visits at which such problems were reported, or in the use of sleep-enhancing medications. The numbers who stopped study treatment were similar in the different treatment groups, and no patient stopped principally because of insomnia. In response to the sleep questionnaire, there were no significant differences between the treatment groups in reports of various sleep events during the preceding month, except that slightly fewer patients allocated simvastatin reported waking often. No differences in sleep duration were observed. 5. This placebo-controlled trial does not indicate any adverse effects of prolonged treatment with simvastatin on systematically sought measures of sleep disturbance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8904672
Treatment of hypercholesterolemia with HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitors has revolutionized medical intervention towards the prevention of coronary artery disease. There is a wide sprectrum of patients with diverse underlying clinical conditions that may benefit from treatment using these agents. These include patients with multiple risk factors, individuals following major vascular events, and those with special conditions that are associated with accelerated atherosclerosis. The latter include patients with severe, dominantly inherited hypercholesterolemia, patients with major organ dysfunction such as chronic renal failure, and individuals after transplantation. Multimodality intervention includes behavior modification and mechanical as well as pharmacological treatment. It is aimed at several important targets: cholesterol reduction, control of hypertension and diabetes, improvement of myocardial contractility, reduction of infarct size, and control of hemostasis. Most of these patients require multiple drugs, which may interact at the pharmacodynamic (efficacy and safety) as well as pharmacokinetic levels. These potential interactions should be considered while planning and implementing preventive measures for an individual as well as for the community. The beneficial effects and the potential hazardous interactions between HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and other medications are presented and discussed using two models: heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia and major organ transplantation. Although there is a partial overlap in the medications used for the treatment of these two conditions, some of them differ. The interaction between HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and other cholesterol-lowering agents, mainly fibrates, is discussed in the first model summarizing data from controlled clinical trials. The interaction with cyclosporin A is presented using the second model. A potential benefit of fluvastatin, as compared with other currently available HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, which may be related to its relatively short plasma half-life and low systemic exposure, is discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8905205
Of 17 patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy (IMN) and nephrotic syndrome, 9 were allocated to treatment with simvastatin (an HMG CoA-reductase inhibitor) and low cholesterol diet, and 8 to diet alone. At entry, the treatment and control groups did not differ in mean serum creatinines, chromium-labelled EDTA clearances, urinary protein/creatinine ratios, serum albumins, and lipid profiles. The mean follow up period (+/- SEM) in the treated group was 19.3 (+/- 4.4) months compared with 16.6 (+/- 5.9) months in the control group. At the end of the trial the fall in chromium-labelled EDTA clearances was similar (-1.27 versus -1.28 mls/min/months/1.73 m2) in the treatment and control groups respectively. The mean (+/- SEM) total and LDL-cholesterol had gone from 10.5 (+/- 0.94) and 8.02 (+/- 1) mmol/l to 5.2 (+/- 0.49) and 3.47 (+/- 0.44) respectively in the treated patients. Additionally the mean (+/- SEM) albumin and urinary protein/creatinine ratio went from 25.6 (+/- 2.4) gm/l and 0.52 (+/- 0.09) gm/mmol to 45.5 (+/- 2.8) and 0.13 (+/- 0.04) respectively. There was little change in total and LDL-cholesterol; albumin and urinary protein/creatinine ratio in the control group. This study supports the observation that lowering serum cholesterol in the nephrotic syndrome reduces proteinuria and increases serum albumin levels. No difference in the rate of decline in renal function could be demonstrated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8906896
Since its approval in 1983 for immunosuppressive therapy in patients undergoing organ and bone marrow transplants, cyclosporin has had a major impact on organ transplantation. It has significantly improved 1-year and 2-year graft survival rates, and decreased morbidity in kidney, liver, heart, heart-lung and pancreas transplantation. Several studies have supported the efficacy of cyclosporin in preventing graft-versus-host disease in bone marrow transplantation. Cyclosporin is also possibly effective in treating diseases of autoimmune origin and as an antineoplastic agent. The introduction of therapeutic drug monitoring of cyclosporin was extremely useful because of the wide inter- and intraindividual variability in the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporin after oral or intravenous administration. Optimal long term use of cyclosporin requires careful monitoring of the blood (or plasma) concentrations. Sustained and clinically significant drug-drug interactions can occur during long term therapy with cyclosporin. The coadministration of multiple drugs with cyclosporin could result in graft rejection, renal dysfunction or other undesirable effects. Any interaction that leads to modified cyclosporin concentrations is of potential clinical importance. Cyclosporin itself may have significant effects on the pharmacokinetics and/or pharmacodynamics of coadministered drugs, such as digoxin, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and antineoplastic drugs affected by multidrug resistance. Many drugs have been shown to affect the pharmacokinetics and/or pharmacodynamics of cyclosporin. Interactions between cyclosporin and danazol, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole, metoclopramide, nicardipine, verapamil, carbamazepine, phenobarbital (phenobarbitone), phenytoin, rifampicin (rifampin) and cotrimoxazole (trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole) are well documented in a large number of patients. Other interactions (such as those with aciclovir, estradiol and imipenem) are documented only in isolated case studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8909899
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8913414
To review the current literature on the effects of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors in secondary prevention and regression of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8915817
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) can cause early disability and death from premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Patients homozygous for the disease have very high plasma cholesterol, extensive xanthomatosis, and die from atherosclerosis in childhood or early adulthood. Past attempts to improve the prognosis included removal of cholesterol from the circulation by ileal bypass or biliary diversion. Neither treatment was successful. Direct removal by plasmapheresis of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the primary carrier of cholesterol in plasma, was first performed on an FH homozygous patient in 1966. The treatment was well tolerated and led to rapid diminution of xanthomas. Other experimental treatments included selective LDL apheresis with monoclonal or polyclonal antibody affinity columns. A method for selective LDL apheresis was developed in 1983 by Armstrong, Seidel, and colleagues based on heparin precipitation of LDL at low pH. This method, called HELP, removes all apolipoprotein B-containing lipoproteins including LDL and lipoprotein (a), as well as some fibrinogen. LDL apheresis by HELP is well tolerated; the incidence of side effects is low, and the treatment has been associated with regression of cardiovascular disease. LDL apheresis, rather than liver transplantation, is the treatment of choice for patients with severe, life-threatening hypercholesterolemia which does not respond to diet and drug therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8916484
Atherosclerosis is related to serum lipids, whereas restenosis after coronary angioplasty is probably not, reflecting different pathophysiologies. Nonetheless, treatment of lipid disorders is appropriate after angioplasty.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8916658
We examined and compared the effects of probucol and pravastatin on the regression of xanthelasma. Thirty-six cases treated by probucol and 18 cases by pravastatin were evaluated for 12 months. Thirteen of the 36 cases treated with probucol showed regression of xanthelasma. However, one of the 18 cases treated with pravastatin showed regression. These data were statistically significantly. The average total cholesterol value in both groups decreased during drug therapy. However, the average of HDL-cholesterol values in the probucol treatment group showed significant decreases, but those in the pravastatin treatment group did not. We discussed the mechanisms of the two drugs on the regression of xanthelasma and the mechanisms of development of xanthelasma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8917325
The introduction of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors has provided an important new class of agents that reduce levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol more powerfully than any previously used drugs. Multiple clinical trials have shown a significant decrease in lipid values and cardiovascular events and a slowing of the progression of atherosclerosis in men and women of all ages. The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study demonstrated a significant reduction in all-cause mortality as a result of reduced cardiovascular mortality. The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be considered as first-line therapy for hypercholesterolemia in all patients with established atherosclerosis involving the coronary, carotid, or peripheral vessels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8918276
We assessed the potential benefit of treatment for low-risk and high-risk groups in the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) population, and compared the benefits of primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) by lipid lowering with the benefits of blood pressure reduction in the primary prevention of stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8918503
The relation between plasma cholesterol (CH) concentration and mortality is complex. The plasma CH concentration correlates positively with mortality from coronary heart disease, but some studies have shown a negative relation with death from cancer. If these two relations reflect causal mechanisms that are reversible by changing the plasma CH concentration, the benefits of lipid reduction for heart disease might be offset by an increased mortality from cancer. Different aspects between lipid metabolism and cancer, as well as new insights into this interesting field, are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8920175
The incidence of cardiovascular diseases that are related to the atherosclerotic process increases exponentially with age. Organ lesions, the clinical manifestation of atherosclerotic disease, are late events due to complications in the plaque (ulceration, thrombosis, calcification) which are the result of an increased vulnerability to disruption of a previously stable plaque. The higher incidence of age-related clinical events could be explained by a rising sensitivity of plaques to destabilising factors, both parietal and humoral. The increased probability that a plaque in an elderly patient will became vulnerable could be related to those destabilising factors that significantly increase with aging, such as advanced glycation end-products. For these reasons, it seems most important that the analysis of these age-related destabilising factors, rather than those factors that promote the development of early atherosclerotic plaques, should be undertaken. Taking the point of view of a pharmacological intervention, this should eventually lead to a more complete understanding of this process.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8926908
Thirty-four (34) subjects with primary hyperlipidaemia were enrolled for this study. After low fat dietary therapy for 6 weeks, subjects' whose serum total cholesterol fell to below 6.2 mmol/l (11 subjects) were excluded from the study and those whose serum total cholesterol were 6.2 mmol/l or more (23 subjects) were started on pravastatin 10 mg nocte. After 8 weeks of treatment, there was a significant decrease in the mean total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol. However 13 of the subjects still had serum total cholesterol 6.2 mmol/l or more and their pravastatin dose was increased to 20 mg nocte. After 12 weeks, there was a significant reduction in triglyceride, total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol. There was also a significant increase in HDL-cholesterol. The triglyceride fell by a mean of 15.7%, total cholesterol by a mean of 18.1% and LDL-cholesterol by a mean of 26.3%. HDL-cholesterol on the other hand, increased by 19.4%. The subjects whose total cholesterol fell below 6.2 mmol/l at week 8 had significantly lower total cholesterol to begin with than those whose total cholesterol failed to do so and hence were commenced on 20 mg pravastatin. This suggests that the optimum dose of the drug is dependent on the initial level of total cholesterol. We conclude that pravastatin is effective as a lipid lowering agent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8929256
Lipoprotein deposition and increased intimal proteoglycans are characteristics of the atherosclerotic lesion in which low density lipoproteins (LDL) bind with high affinity to proteoglycans. The affinity of LDL to proteoglycans is dependent on its structural and compositional characteristics. This study investigated the relationship between serum lipid levels and LDL-proteoglycan reactivity. We also analyzed how lipid-lowering drugs affect this interaction. Patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia (n = 147) were randomized to pravastatin 40 mg o.d., gemfibrozil 600 mg b.i.d., gemfibrozil+pravastatin (same doses) or placebo. LDL reactivity with proteoglycans was analyzed by precipitation of serum with isolated human arterial proteoglycans. Reactivity was determined as amount of precipitated cholesterol or apolipoprotein (apo) B. Under the conditions used, 53% of the LDL cholesterol and 29% of serum apo B were precipitated. There were strong correlations between precipitated LDL and serum levels of cholesterol, LDL or apo B. No correlations were found with serum lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) levels. During pravastatin treatment, cholesterol was reduced by 26.5% and triglycerides by 9.8%. During gemfibrozil treatment corresponding figures were 16.8 and 40.2, and for the combined treatment, 27.5% and 34.2%. On all treatments, the reactivity of LDL with proteoglycan was reduced. The effects were significantly larger in the groups treated with gemfibrozil. This was correlated with the increase in high density lipoprotein (HDL) during gemfibrozil treatment. In hypercholesterolemia, the reactivity of LDL with proteoglycan is increased; treatment with lipid-lowering drugs lowers this reactivity, the effect being greatest for gemfibrozil. This might be due to conformational changes of LDL during treatment with gemfibrozil, unrelated to its lipid lowering effect. Since binding of LDL to proteoglycans is central in atherogenesis, this may be of importance for the role of gemfibrozil as an antiatherogenic drug.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8930429
This randomized, placebo-controlled, double-masked, parallel-group trial assessed the serum cholesterol-lowering effects of atorvastatin, a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme. A reductase inhibitor, over 26 weeks in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. Thirty-nine patients from four centers in the United States were originally randomized to one of two treatment groups and received either atorvastatin 10 mg (20 patients) or placebo (19 patients) once daily. Atorvastatin rapidly and significantly reduced serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and apolipoprotein B levels. LDL-C was reduced 35% with atorvastatin 10 mg compared with a 0% increase in LDL-C in the placebo group. Atorvastatin significantly reduced triglyceride levels, with improvements occurring over time. At 26 weeks, triglyceride levels were reduced by 21% with atorvastatin treatment compared with a 14% increase with placebo. The drug was well tolerated and no clinically significant laboratory abnormalities were detected.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8937448
Lovastatin, simvastatin, and pravastatin are fairly strong inhibitors of sterol synthesis in human myoblasts in culture. Lovastatin and simvastatin have IC50 values of 19 +/- 6 nM and 4.0 +/- 2.3 nM, respectively. Pravastatin is a weaker inhibitor of sterol synthesis (IC50 value of 110 +/- 38 nM). Through inhibition of mevalonate production, these compounds have a distinct inhibiting effect on cell proliferation. Because proliferation of myoblasts is important in the repair of damaged skeletal muscle, experiments were performed to investigate the effect of lovastatin, simvastatin, and pravastatin on cell proliferation and cell viability. The more potent inhibitors of sterol synthesis, lovastatin, and simvastatin, were able to inhibit the proliferation of these cells during 3 days of incubation with drug concentrations of 1 microM for lovastatin and 0.1 microM or 1 microM for simvastatin. DNA synthesis was decreased by more than 80% in the presence of 1 microM of lovastatin or simvastatin. In contrast, under these conditions, pravastatin had no influence on cell proliferation or DNA synthesis, which is probably related to the lack of inhibition of sterol synthesis by pravastatin on extended incubation. The three 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors did not disturb cell viability because mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity and ATP content remained proportional to the number of cells in the culture at any concentration used.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8937525
Physical disruption of atheroma frequently causes coronary thrombosis. Ruptured plaques usually have thin fibrous caps overlying a large thrombogenic lipid core rich in lipid-laden macrophages. The biology of plaque monocyte-derived macrophages thus assumes critical importance in understanding plaque instability. Monocyte recruitment involves binding to leukocyte adhesion receptors on the endothelial surface such as intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1. Once adherent to the endothelial surface, monocytes enter the intima at sites of lesion predilection. This process probably requires directed migration of the mononuclear cells. A number of chemoattractant molecules, such as the monocyte chemoattractant molecule-1, may participate in signaling this entry of adherent monocytes into the artery wall. Once resident in the arterial intima, monocytes accumulate lipid, via increasingly well characterized receptor-mediated uptake, and transform into macrophage foam cells. These lesional macrophages also acquire other functional properties including production of the potent procoagulant, tissue factor, apolipoprotein E, and an increasing list of cytokines (protein mediators of information and immunity) that may participate importantly in autocrine and paracrine signaling among leukocytes and vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells. Fatty streaks seldom cause clinical events but may evolve into complicated atheromatous plaques characterized by an accumulation of smooth muscle cells and extracellular matrix and formation of a central core containing extracellular lipid. Death of macrophages, including programmed cell death or apoptosis, probably promotes formation of this thrombogenic lipid pool whose size correlates with plaque instability. Lesion complication often culminates in rupture of the fibrous cap overlying this lipid core. The integrity of the fibrous cap, and thus its resistance to rupture, depends critically on the collagenous extracellular matrix of the plaque's fibrous cap. This aspect of plaque structure in turn depends upon the balance between synthesis and degradation of the macromolecules that comprise the extracellular matrix of the cap, principally interstitial forms of collagen derived from arterial smooth muscle cells. Collagen breakdown, however, appears to depend critically on macrophages. Plaque macrophages express a variety of matrix-degrading enzymes that can contribute to the weakening of the fibrous cap. In this way, macrophages can critically influence aspects of the biology of human atheroma related to lesion stability. We hypothesize that lipid-lowering reduces clinical events, as shown in recent trials, by stabilizing lesions in part by reversing some of the maladaptive functions of macrophages described above.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8946135
Since the publication of the Report of the Expert Panel on Blood Cholesterol in Children in 1991, both multi-institutional and office-practice-based studies have attested to its diet recommendations' safety and efficacy in modestly lowering blood cholesterol. Normal growth was preserved. Investigators have found no aberrations of either macro- or micronutrients. Although the dietary changes recommended appear effective, the screening recommendations have been vigorously questioned, with adherents on both sides with opinions from never screen to universal screening. Conventional medical wisdom states that smoking is bad for smokers' health. The ill health effects have been extended to passive smoking. Previous studies have shown effects of maternal smoking on the birth-weight of the newborn. Now studies are emerging that show long-time effects of in utero smoke on coronary risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8946557
Pregnancy outcomes in women with inadvertent exposure to lovastatin and simvastatin during pregnancy have been examined based on reports submitted to the manufacturer as part of worldwide postmarketing surveillance. There were 134 reports of exposure during pregnancy in which pregnancy outcome was known. Among prospectively followed pregnancies with known outcome, the proportion of normal outcomes was 85%, congenital anomalies 4.0%, spontaneous abortions 8.0%, fetal deaths/stillbirths 1.0%, and miscellaneous adverse outcomes 2.0%. While the number of prospective reports available for evaluation were only sufficient to rule out a three- to fourfold increase in the overall frequency of congenital anomalies, these proportions do not exceed what would be expected in the general population. Based on findings from this interim evaluation, there is no relationship between exposure to therapeutic doses of these agents during pregnancy and the occurrence of adverse pregnancy outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8952866
Many studies have found that familial hypercholesterolemia, a hyperlipoproteinemia associated with premature atherosclerosis, is characterized by enhanced platelet aggregation. This study was undertaken to measure the urinary excretion of the two main urinary thromboxane B2 (TXB2) metabolites (2, 3-dinor-TXB2 and 11-dehydro-TXB2) in 20 patients affected by familial hypercholesterolemia treated for one month with 40 mg/day of pravastatin (10 patients) in comparison to 10 normocholesterolemic subjects. After a run-in period, the type II A patients showed total cholesterol levels (296 +/- 32 mg/dL) significantly higher (P < 0.001) than those of control subjects (155 +/- 46 mg/dL). The urinary concentrations of 11-dehydro-TXB2 and 2,3-dinor-TXB2 also significantly differed (P < 0.001) between control group (1,463 +/- 1,440 and 386 +/- 447 pg/mg urinary creatinine) and treated patients (3,536 +/- 2,112 and 914 +/- 572 pg/mg urinary creatinine). At baseline there was a positive correlation between total cholesterol (TC) levels and urinary TXB2 metabolite concentrations (2,3-dinor-TXB2 r = 0.61, P < 0.02; 11-dehydro-TXB2, r = 48, P < 0.05), but not between low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and the urinary compounds. At the end of a four-week treatment. TC and LDL-C had decreased significantly from the baseline levels, by 27% and 30% in the fluvastatin group (P < 0.01) and by 23% and 31% in the pravastatin group (P < 0.01), with no significant difference between the two groups. After the two treatments with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, there was no statistically significant reduction of the urinary metabolite levels. In addition, the positive correlation seen at baseline between TC and TXB2 metabolites was no longer present. In accord with previous studies, we found a significant correlation between TC levels and TXB2 metabolites concentrations in type II A hypercholesterolemic patients. Although, short-term treatment with two statins reduced TC levels, it did not change the thromboxane metabolite excretion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8960446
Current experience from coronary angiographic trials using different treatment regimens such as lifestyle changes, resins, nicotinic acid and statins, shows that progression of atheroma can be retarded, and that regression can sometimes be induced, by a marked lowering of LDL-cholesterol. Young post-myocardial infarction patients, however, usually exhibit a multiplicity of metabolic risk factors with dyslipidaemias, predominantly hypertriglyceridaemia, and disturbances of glucose-insulin homeostasis and of the haemostatic system. These factors, together coupled with coronary angiographic data showing that the degree of dyslipidaemia is related to the extent and degree of coronary atherosclerosis, and the fact that rapid progression of coronary atherosclerosis was foreseen in this group of patients, resulted in the initiation of the Bezafibrate Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (BECAIT) in 1985. BECAIT was a 5-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of bezafibrate (200 mg three times daily) and dietary intervention in dyslipidaemic male survivors of myocardial infarction below 45 years of age. The angiographic analysis included 81 patients (42 bezafibrate and 39 placebo) who underwent baseline and at least one post-treatment angiogram, at 2 and 5 years. Changes in mean minimum lumen diameter indicated that there was 0.13 mm less (95% Cl: 0.10; 0.15) disease progression in focal lesions in the bezafibrate group than in the placebo group (P = 0.049). Parallel, but non-statistically significant, treatment effects were observed for mean segment diameter and percent stenosis. Three patients treated with bezafibrate and 11 patients in the placebo group suffered coronary events during the course of the trial (P = 0.02 logrank test). The angiographic effects of bezafibrate were accompanied by statistically significant reductions in serum cholesterol and triglycerides. Furthermore, plasma fibrinogen levels were significantly reduced and HDL-cholesterol concentration increased but there was no net change in LDL-cholesterol. These findings show that bezafibrate slowed the progression of focal coronary atherosclerosis to a degree that is comparable to that achieved with the statins in angiographic trials such as MAAS and REGRESS. Bezafibrate also reduced the occurrence of coronary events in young post-infarction victims. Like BECAIT, analyses of data from the NHLBI type II study, CLAS, POSCH and MARS provide evidence for the role of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins in the progression of coronary artery disease. Retardation of progression of atherosclerosis and a reduction in coronary events is, therefore, possible without reducing LDL-cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8962211
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8962554
In a randomized study we evaluated the effect of biweekly low density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis plus simvastatin versus medication alone on regional myocardial perfusion.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8964646
A total of 47 patients suffering from heterozygous hyperlipidemia were treated with LDL-apheresis (24 patients, aged 49.5 +/- 11.5 years), diet and/or lipid-lowering drugs or with diet and lipid-lowering drugs only (23 patients, aged 48.0 +/- 11.9 years). After treatment periods of 44.4 +/- 14.3 (apheresis group) and 33.5 +/- 15.9 (drug group) months, respectively, the ensuing results revealed significant differences (p < 0.0001): total cholesterol decreased from 10.4 to 5.5 vs 9.9 to 8.7 mmol/l, LDL from 7.4 to 3.9 vs 6.6 to 5.2 mmol/l, triglycerides from 5.8 to 3.7 vs 4.8 to 4.1 mmol/l and the LDL/HDL-ratio decreased from 7.1 to 3.4 vs 6.7 to 5.8. In the apheresis group one patient died from myocardial infarction vs one non-fatal myocardial infarction and the manifestation of coronary heart disease in three cases in the drug group. There were no severe side-effects in either group. All patients in the apheresis group experienced an increased clinical performance. On the other hand physological well-being of these patients was lower than that of the drug group (scores 42.3 +/- 8.9 vs 50.2 +/- 9.9, p < 0.002). The present trial suggests that a continuing reduction in serum lipid concentrations may lower in a dose dependent manner the risk of development and progression of coronary heart disease. With respect to clinical and laboratory results, LDL-apheresis seems safe and appears to be the most effective therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8967704
Apheresis of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is an effective lipid-lowering treatment in hypercholesterolemic patients who have coronary artery disease and are refractory to drugs. More aggressive lipid-lowering therapy may further slow the progression of atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8967711
To develop an optimal treatment strategy that reduces low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels and improves adherence to therapy by reviewing clinical trials that define the dose-response characteristics for 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), bile acid sequestrants, and niacin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8968448
To assess the efficacy and safety of fluvastatin in hypercholesterolemic, cyclosporine-treated, renal transplant recipients, and to determine whether concomitant steroid therapy in such patients alters the lipid-lowering effects of fluvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8970428
In a prospective observational study, we looked at the effects of simvastatin on cardiac function, lipids, and blood pressure after cardiac transplantation. Our study suggests that simvastatin treatment is associated with improved ejection fraction in cardiac transplant recipients independent of effects attributable to the lipid profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8970497
The consumption of lipid-lowering drugs in Finland and in other Nordic countries increased almost steadily in 1988-1993. The exceptions were the year 1992 in Finland and 1993 in Iceland, when consumption was lower than in the previous year. In both cases the temporary decline in consumption was associated with a reduction in reimbursement for the costs of lipid-lowering drugs. In 1993, the consumption level was 2.7 defined daily doses/1000 inhabitants/day in Finland and ranged from 2.3 to 4.0 in other Nordic countries. According to the Finnish nationwide prescription register, 0.5% of men and 0.6% of women purchased lipid-lowering drugs in the period from January to September, 1994. The rate of use was highest among people of middle age. In the early 1990s, statins took the lead in the consumption of lipid-lowering drugs, accounting for 70% of prescriptions in 1993; the percentages of fibrates, resins, and nicotinic acid derivatives declined in the same period. In 1994 the prevalence of familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) according to strictly predetermined criteria was 0.8 per 1000 among Finns, and the proportion of FH patients among all users of lipid-lowering drugs was 11%. The use of lipid-lowering drugs is not particularly high in Finland and seems to be reasonably targeted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8970607
Occlusive atherosclerosis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in renal transplant recipients. Hyperlipidemia associated with the transplanted state may be at least partially responsible for this complication and is therefore an important target of therapy. The 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors are powerful cholesterol-lowering drugs, but their broad use in transplant recipients has been hindered by concerns about interactions with cyclosporine. Cyclosporine interferes with the elimination of these agents, increasing their plasma and tissue levels and predisposing the patient to rhabdomyolysis. Fluvastatin, the first entirely synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, possesses a distinct pharmacologic profile, including a shorter half-life and virtually no active circulating metabolites. Therefore, it may interact differently with cyclosporine. The pharmacokinetics and safety of fluvastatin, 20 mg/day, were evaluated in 20 hypercholesterolemic renal transplant recipients also receiving cyclosporine, usually in combination with azathioprine and methylprednisolone, during the 14-week study. Fluvastatin area under the curve, maximum plasma concentration, and time to maximum plasma concentration were minimally increased in these patients, unlike findings reported for lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin. This suggests that metabolism of fluvastatin may be less affected by cyclosporine than that of other reductase inhibitors. Fluvastatin was well tolerated, with no evidence of myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, or ophthalmologic abnormalities. These findings and the significant reductions in total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and the ratio of low-density to high-density lipoproteins achieved in these patients support the broader use of fluvastatin to treat hypercholesterolemia in renal transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8974212
Recent large clinical trials have required screened patients to have serial measurements of an entry criteria variable, eliminating patients form further consideration if the average value is not in the eligibility range specified by the trial protocol. The increasing costs of large clinical trials required that they be executed efficiently. One way to improve efficiency would be to reduce the number of required screening measurements for a patient likely to be ineligible. A procedure is proposed that predicts the value of an average based on n measurements serially obtained on a patient during the screening phase when only m < n measurements are available. The employment of this procedure in a large clinical trial that uses low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides as entry criteria during the screening process is described. As a second example, this procedure is applied to population screening for lipid levels above a treatment threshold. The National Cholesterol Education Program recommends that the average of two LDL cholesterol measurements be used to determine whether LDL cholesterol is above 130 mg/dl, the threshold for treating patients with coronary heart disease. However, data from a sample of patients from a postinfarction population suggest that, if a single LDL cholesterol is above 146 mg/dl, the probability is greater than 95% that the average of the two LDL cholesterol measurements will be above 130 mg/dl.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8974213
Few direct clinical data are available regarding whether cholesterol-lowering therapy should be extended to patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and normal or only slightly elevated plasma cholesterol concentrations. The one published angiographic trial designed to examine this question found no benefit. Additional prospective data will be provided by the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS), a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of fluvastatin therapy (20 mg twice daily) monitored by both quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) and, in a subset of patients, positron-emission tomography (PET). Eligible subjects in LCAS were men and women 35-75 years of age with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol of 115-190 mg/dL on stable dietary therapy and with angiographic evidence by caliper measurement of at least one coronary atherosclerotic lesion causing 30-75% diameter stenosis. Among the 429 patients randomized (mean age 58.8, 81% male), mean baseline LDL cholesterol was only 145.6 mg/dL. Any patient with mean prerandomization LDL cholesterol of 160 mg/dL or higher also received open-label adjunctive cholestyramine. The primary endpoint is within-patient per-lesion change in minimum lumen diameter (MLD) as measured by QCA at baseline and 2.5-year follow-up. All evaluable lesions had MLD at least 0.8mm less than the reference lumen diameter at either baseline or follow-up and MLD at least 25% of the reference lumen diameter at baseline. Data obtained on myocardial perfusion changes (99 patients underwent initial PET), special lipid particles, and coagulation factors may help define which patients with CHD and relatively low LDL cholesterol will benefit from lipid-lowering treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8979121
Eighteen patients with familial hypercholesterolemia treated with lovastatin (40 mg/day) for three months were studied to find out whether the drug induces modifications in the lipid composition of the erythrocyte membrane and whether these induce changes in the rheological behaviour of the red blood cell. Our results show that the changes observed in plasma lipids correlate with a significant decrease in the cholesterol/phospholipid ratio of the red blood cell membrane. These changes in the lipid composition of the cell are statistically related to a decrease in the erythrocyte aggregability and an improvement in blood filterability probably due to an increase in the red blood cell deformability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8983865
1. Recent outcome trials suggest that lipid-lowering with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors is justifiable on risk-benefit grounds in subjects with serum cholesterol > 5.5 mmol/l who have coronary heart disease, other forms of atherosclerotic vascular disease, or who are free of vascular disease but have a risk of major coronary events > or = 1.5% per year. Choice of an appropriate treatment policy will require (i) knowledge of the proportion of the population who will need treatment for secondary prevention, and (ii) targeting of treatment for primary prevention at a specified absolute risk of coronary heart disease events. Selection of an appropriate coronary heart disease risk for primary prevention requires consideration of the number needed to be treated to prevent one coronary heart disease event, the proportion of the population requiring treatment, the cost-effectiveness of treatment and the total cost of treatment. 2. In a random stratified sample of subjects aged 35-69 years from the Health Survey for England 1993 we first examined the prevalence of subjects with cardiovascular disease and serum cholesterol > 5.5 mmol/l who may be candidates for secondary prevention. In those free of cardiovascular disease we then examined the prevalence of subjects with serum cholesterol > 5.5 mmol/l who had three different levels of coronary heart disease risk: coronary heart disease event rates of 4.5% per year, 3.0% per year and 1.5% per year. These subjects may be candidates for primary prevention depending on the treatment policy selected. 3. For secondary prevention, 4.8% (95% confidence interval 4.3-5.3) of the U.K. population aged 35-69 years might be candidates for 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor treatment, comprising 2.4% (2.0 to 2.7) with a history of myocardial infarction, 1.9% (1.6 to 2.2) with angina and 0.5% (0.3-0.7) with a history of stroke--all with total cholesterol > 5.5 mmol/l. The prevalence of these diagnoses with total cholesterol > 5.5 mmol/l increased with age, from 1.5% at age 35-39 years to 16.2% at age 65-69 years in men, and from 0.2% at age 35-39 years to 10.0% at age 65-69 years in women. Approximately 13 people would need treatment for 5 years to prevent one coronary event, at a cost of 36,000 pounds per event prevented. The number needing treatment for secondary prevention would increase substantially if treatment was extended to patients above 70 years of age or to those with serum cholesterol < or = 5.5 mmol/l. 4. Primary prevention aimed at a coronary event risk of 4.5% per year would lead to treatment of only 0.3% (0.2-0.4) of those aged 35-69 years, and those treated would be predominantly older men with additional risk factors for coronary heart disease. The number needed to be treated and cost per coronary event prevented would be similar to those for secondary prevention. 5. Primary prevention targeted at subjects with a coronary event rate of 3.0% per year would entail treating 3.4% (3.0-3.9) of all those aged 35-69 years. At this level of risk, 20 people would need treatment for 5 years to prevent one coronary event, at a cost of 55,000 pounds per event prevented. 6. Primary prevention aimed at a coronary event rate of 1.5% per year would entail treating 19.6% (18.7-20.6) of all subjects aged 35-69 years, and about 80% of men aged 60-69 years for primary or secondary prevention. At this level of risk, 40 people would need treatment for 5 years to prevent one event, at a cost of 111,000 pounds per event saved. 7. Guidelines for 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor treatment should take into account the considerable workload and financial resources needed to implement secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, the accepted first priority. For primary prevention they need to consider the number needed to be treated to prevent one event, the number of subjects needing treatment, the cost-effectiveness of treatment and

Abstract for pubmed ID 8985259
The high prevalence of cholesterol gallstone disease in hypertriglyceridemic patients may be associated with frequent metabolic defects in cholesterol and bile acid syntheses and in the concomitant formation of bile supersaturated with cholesterol. This study had the two aims: 1) to assess whether the defects as well as the degree of biliary cholesterol supersaturation in patients with hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP) can be estimated by the simultaneous determination of plasma mevalonate (MVL) and 7alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one (C4); and 2) to assess the possible application of an estimated cholesterol saturation index ([CSI]E) as a means of evaluating the clinical effects of simvastatin on biliary lipid composition. Biliary cholesterol supersaturation was observed in patients with both IIa and IV HLP types. Consistent with the high activity and steady-state messenger RNA level of 3-hydroxy-3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, plasma MVL was significantly higher in 86 patients with HLP (38 type IIa, 44.1 +/- 2.4 nmol/L and 48 type IV, 56.7 +/- 2.3; P < .01) than in 41 normolipidemic subjects (34.2 +/- 1.5), closely correlating with the molar percentage of cholesterol in bile (r = .61, P = .0001; n = 86). On the other hand, consistent with the high activity and messenger RNA level of cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase, plasma C4 was significantly higher in patients with HLP (type IIa, 28.8 +/- 2.3 nmol/L and type IV, 38.3 +/- 2.7; P < .01) than in normolipidemic subjects (17.4 +/- 1.5). Plasma C4 was closely correlated with plasma MVL (r = .40, P = .0001; n = 86), but was inversely correlated with the molar percentage of bile acids in bile (r = .49, P = .0001; n = 86). Assuming that cholesterol supersaturation in patients with HLP may be governed by both an enhanced cholesterol secretion (closely reflected by plasma MVL) and a decreased secretion of bile acids (closely reflected by plasma C4), the multivariate linear regression-analyses revealed that an index defined as estimated CSI ([CSI]E) (%) in patients with HLP was given by the following equation using plasma MVL and C4 (nmol/L): [CSI]E = 1[MVL] + 0.7[C4] + 44.4. Biliary cholesterol supersaturation in patients treated with simvastatin improved in a manner parallel to the time course of decreases in plasma MVL and C4. The [CSI]E before and at the end of treatment were correlated with biliary CSI. These results indicate that defects of hepatic cholesterogenesis, and bile acid synthesis, and the degree of biliary cholesterol supersaturation in patients with HLP can be estimated exactly by the simultaneous determination of plasma MVL and C4; furthermore [CSI]E may be adopted for clinical use as a convenient index of biliary CSI.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8989104
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 8990341
The clinical care of people infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has been substantially affected by the introduction of HIV-specific protease inhibitors (PIs). The 4 PIs available are saquinavir mesylate, ritonavir, indinavir sulfate, and nelfinavir mesylate. Comparison studies have not been reported; therefore, an assessment of the available data to aid clinicians and patients in choosing appropriate treatment will be presented.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8992351
Obstructive changes often occur in aortocoronary saphenous-vein bypass grafts because of atherosclerosis and thrombosis. We studied whether aggressive lowering of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels or low-dose anticoagulation would delay the progression of atherosclerosis in grafts.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8993943
Hypolipidaemic agents do not usually normalize all of the multiple lipoprotein abnormalities in patients with familial combined hyperlipidaemia (FCHL). The effect of the simvastatin-ciprofibrate combination in comparison with each drug alone on the lipoprotein abnormality patterns was studied in patients with FCHL and coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 8994481
To determine the effect of lovastatin therapy on health-related quality of life in older persons.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8997473
To present information on the function, structure, and importance of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and to evaluate the current literature regarding the controversy of managing patients with an "isolated" low HDL-C concentration.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8998104
Symptomatic bradycardia is commonly seen in the emergency department. Effective drug therapy for this clinical scenario is limited. Although glucagon has been used in no clinical trial in this setting, its cardiac activity may prove useful, particularly in the setting of beta-adrenergic blockade. We report a case series comprising three patients taking maintenance beta-blocker therapy who presented to the ED with symptomatic bradycardia and hypotension and in whom glucagon therapy obviated the need for further treatment. Further study is warranted to evaluate and define the role of glucagon in the treatment of symptomatic bradycardia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 8999328
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9003110
The Carotid Atherosclerosis Italian Ultrasound Study (CAIUS) was performed to test the effects of lipid lowering on the progression of carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) in 305 asymptomatic patients from a Mediterranean country.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9006803
In this study, plasma NO2- and NO3- (NOx-) levels were studied after lowering cholesterol with simvastatin in 26 outpatients with hypercholesterolemia (male, 9; female, 17; mean age, 59 +/- 12 years; cholesterol level > 220 mg/dl). Simvastatin (5 mg) was orally administered once daily, and blood samples were collected before, and after 4 and 12 weeks of treatment. Total, very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol were lowered (total, 254 +/- 44 mg/dl to 209 +/- 34 mg/dl; VLDL, 48 mg/dl [5-126 mg/dl] to 34 mg/dl [10-67 mg/dl]; LDL, 171 +/- 41 mg/dl to 133 +/- 37 mg/dl), but high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was elevated (33 +/- 9.5 mg/dl to 39 +/- 11 mg/dl) at 12 weeks after starting simvastatin. Although the effects of simvastatin on the lipid levels nearly reached their maximum levels at 4 weeks, NOx- was elevated in a linear fashion with simvastatin (before; 8 +/- 17 mumol/l, at 12 weeks; 57 +/- 32 mumol/l). The % changes in the NOx- correlated directly with those in HDL-cholesterol at 12 weeks (P < 0.002) but not with other lipoprotein cholesterol fractions. These results suggest that simvastatin lowers cholesterol levels and elevates HDL while increasing the plasma NOx- levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9008444
Cholesterol lowering is associated with a reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. This study sought to determine whether cholesterol lowering also results in a reduction of myocardial ischemia during daily life.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9009414
Treatment of xanthoma of the Achilles tendon has up until the present been based on partial or total surgical resection of the affected tendon. Because of the different results of surgical treatment our study was aimed at using clinical and ultrasound data to reveal the effectiveness of hypocholesteremic medical therapy in 39 cases of tendinous xanthoma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9010366
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9011785
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) showed that lowering cholesterol levels with simvastatin reduces mortality and morbidity in patients with angina pectoris or previous acute myocardial infarction. Before the widespread use of cholesterol-lowering drugs in such patients is recommended, its cost effectiveness should be demonstrated. We estimated the cost effectiveness of simvastatin treatment to lower cholesterol levels in relation to the age, sex, and cholesterol level before treatment of patients with coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9013093
The use of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (e.g. pravastatin) has gradually increased in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia. By inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase (the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis) activity, cholesterol synthesis in the liver is reduced and the plasma level of cholesterol, especially low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol, is substantially lowered. Simultaneously, inhibition of HMG CoA reductase activity is associated with increased synthesis and accumulation of larger amounts of HMG CoA reductase enzyme protein. The main purpose of this study was to determine if the cessation of pravastatin treatment causes a rapid increase in the synthesis and biliary secretion of cholesterol, a condition which might lead to a temporarily increased cholesterol saturation of bile. Nine patients undergoing surgery for stones in the common bile duct were fitted with T-tubes in the common bile duct peroperatively; the side arm of the T-tube was left open postoperatively, creating a biliary fistula. All patients were given 6 days' treatment with pravastatin (20 mg b.i.d.) following the operation. Bile was collected from the T-tube, in 12-h fractions during this period and for another 3 days after termination of the treatment. Plasma levels of lipoproteins and lathosterol--reflecting cholesterol synthesis--were determined on several occasions. After cessation of pravastatin treatment, the plasma levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol increased by 21% and 33% respectively. High-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol did not change. The plasma level of lathosterol was increased two- to fourfold. Outputs of bile acids and phospholipids were significantly increased (23% and 10% respectively) after termination of treatment, whereas the output of cholesterol was not significantly changed. Cholesterol saturation was reduced by 20%, from 175 +/- 37% to 140 +/- 19%, but this change was not significant. The results indicate that, with the present experimental model (biliary diversion), the synthesis and biliary secretion of bile acids seem to be largely dependent on the de novo synthesis of cholesterol in the liver, whereas the biliary output of cholesterol is not.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9024745
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study shows that 20-week fluvastatin treatment induces beneficial changes in the lipid panel and a shift in the fibrinolytic pathway toward activation through a decrease in tissue plasminogen activator antigen. Fluvastatin treatment causes no variation in lipoprotein(a) circulating levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9026840
Coronary artery disease is a major limiting factor for long-term survival after heart transplantation. Hyperlipidemia is a probable risk factor for coronary artery disease in this kind of patient. Bezafibrate and lovastatin have proved to be effective in lowering total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol. The present study tested the safety and efficacy of both drugs on lipid levels in 21 patients with post-heart transplantation hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9028747
Pravastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor which lowers plasma cholesterol levels by inhibiting de novo cholesterol synthesis. Pravastatin produces consistent dose-dependent reductions in both total and low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia. Favourable changes in other parameters such as total triglyceride and high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels are generally modest. Combination therapy with other antihyperlipidaemic agents such as cholestyramine further enhances the efficacy of pravastatin in patients with severe dyslipidaemias. Available data suggest that pravastatin is effective in elderly patients and in patients with hypercholesterolaemia secondary to diabetes mellitus or renal disease. The benefit of cholesterol-lowering in terms of patient outcomes is currently an area of considerable interest. Recently completed regression studies (PLAC I, PLAC II, KAPS and REGRESS) show that pravastatin slows progression of atherosclerosis and lowers the incidence of coronary events in patients with mild to moderately severe hypercholesterolaemia and known coronary heart disease. Large scale primary (WOSCOPS) and secondary (CARE) prevention studies, moreover, demonstrate that pravastatin has beneficial effects on coronary morbidity and mortality. In WOSCOPS, all-cause mortality was reduced by 22%. Pravastatin is generally well tolerated by most patients (including the elderly), as evidenced by data from studies of up to 5 years in duration. As with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, myopathy occurs rarely (< 0.1% of patients treated with pravastatin): approximately 1 to 2% of patients may present with raised serum levels of hepatic transaminases. Thus, with its favourable effects on cardiovascular morbidity/mortality and total mortality, pravastatin should be considered a first-line agent in patients with elevated cholesterol levels, multiple risk factors or coronary heart disease who are at high risk of cardiovascular morbidity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9034751
Endothelial dysfunction is emerging as an important factor in the early development of acute and chronic renal disease. Drugs aimed specifically at rectifying this aberration are being developed, although other established agents such as calcium antagonists, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and HMG CoA reductase inhibitors also have beneficial effects in this setting. Calcium antagonists are particularly effective at ameliorating acute renal ischaemia associated with endothelial dysfunction. Combination therapy with a calcium antagonist and an ACE inhibitor might optimise the beneficial effects of calcium channel blockade on the sequelae of endothelial dysfunction in chronic renal failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9036802
To review the pathogenic mechanism that lead to the poor prognosis of diabetic patients after myocardial infarction and to determine the efficacy of current interventions for myocardial infarction in these patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9039919
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9039920
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9043838
In several angiographic trials, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have shown a beneficial effect on the progression of coronary artery disease. Using 20 mg simvastatin, day-1, a treatment period of up to 4 years was necessary to show a significant reduction in coronary artery disease progression. The question remains however whether higher dosages of simvastatin would be more advantageous in respect to the magnitude of the effect and the required time interval to demonstrate treatment efficacy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9043839
The Oxford Cholesterol Study is a randomized placebo-controlled trial designed primarily to assess the effects of simvastatin on blood cholesterol levels and side-effects in preparation for a large, long-term trial of the effects of cholesterol-lowering drug therapy on mortality. At present there is only limited evidence from randomized comparisons of the effects of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, such as simvastatin, on thrombogenic, as distinct from atherogenic, pathways in coronary heart disease. The present sub-study was carried out to assess the effects of simvastatin on a range of haemostatic variables, as well as on free fatty acids and on lipoprotein fractions not studied in detail previously. At an average of about 2 years after starting study treatment, non-fasting blood samples were obtained from a sequential sample of 162 participants who had been randomly allocated to receive 40 mg (54 patients) or 20 mg (57 patients) daily simvastatin or matching placebo treatment (51 patients). Only patients who reported taking their study treatment and who were not known to be diabetic or to be taking some other lipid lowering treatment were to be included. The principal comparisons were to be of those allocated simvastatin (i.e. 20 and 40 mg doses combined) vs those allocated placebo. Among patients allocated simvastatin, marginally significant lower factor VII antigen levels (12.10% +/- 6.08 of standard; 2P < 0.05) and non-significantly lower factor VII coagulant activity (8.24% +/- 4.99 of standard) and fibrinogen concentrations (0.10 +/- 0.08 g. l-1) were observed. In contrast, plasminogen activator inhibitor activity was significantly higher (2.62 +/- 1.03 IU; 2P < 0.01) among patients allocated simvastatin. No significant differences were seen in the other haemostatic factors studied (e.g. prothrombin fragment 1.2, factor XII and C1 inhibitor). Total free fatty acid concentration was marginally significantly reduced (2P = 0.02) with simvastatin, but none of the reductions in individual free fatty acids was significant. Lipoprotein fractions were only measured among patients allocated 40 mg daily simvastatin or placebo. Compared with placebo, simvastatin produced significant decreases not only in LDL cholesterol (1.74 +/- 0.15 mmol.1(-1): 2P < 0.0001) but also in VLDL cholesterol (0.28 +/- 0.08 mmol.1(-1); 2P < 0.001) and IDL cholesterol (0.17 +/- 0.03 mmol.1(-1); 2P < 0.0001). There were also lower triglyceride levels associated with LDL (0.07 +/- 0.01 mmol.1(-1); 2P < 0.0001), IDL (0.03 +/- 0.01 mmol.1(-1); 2P < 0.01) and VLDL (0.27 +/- 0.14; 2P = 0.05). The effects of simvastatin on haemostatic variables appear to be far less marked than its lipid effects. Given the associations of haemostatic factors with coronary heart disease incidence, larger randomized comparisons of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (and of the newer fibrates which may produce greater effects) are needed to provide more reliable estimates of the extent to which they influence these variables.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9046759
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9049510
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9050817
The endothelium is involved in the control of vascular tone and homeostasis. Risk factors for arteriosclerosis, as well as other conditions have been shown to be associated with a dysfunctional endothelium. Clinically, endothelial function and dysfunction have been mostly evaluated by the assessment of endothelial dependent relaxation, for example in response to acetylcholine or increase inflow. The functional implications of endothelial dysfunction in cardiovascular disease are not well defined, but recent clinical trials have suggested that endothelial dysfunction may affect vascular tone and organ perfusion particularly during stress situations such as exercise. Moreover, endothelial dysfunction may represent an early event in the development of arteriosclerosis. Therefore, recent clinical studies have been performed to restore normal endothelial function in patients, using interventions such as L-arginine, lipid lowering drugs, vitamin C, other antioxidants, or exercise.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9051704
Experimental and clinical data suggest that activation of the LDL receptors by the use of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, in the presence of normal plasma cholesterol levels, may result in a reduction of Lp(a) concentrations. This hypothesis has been tested in an open study on seven subjects with normal cholesterolemia but marked elevations of Lp(a) levels, three of whom received pravastatin and four simvastatin at standard therapeutic doses. While the two drugs caused the expected reduction of plasma total and LDL cholesterol levels, no significant changes in Lp(a) were noted. This study contradicts a prior clinical finding and suggests that HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are unlikely to reduce plasma Lp(a) levels even in the absence of hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9054772
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9054840
Cholesterol-lowering therapy can improve cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with atherosclerosis. Although the mechanisms responsible are unclear, these benefits precede macroscopic changes in the vasculature. Emerging evidence that improvement in endothelial function may occur requires substantiation; in particular, it is unclear how early any such improvement would be detectable after initiation of therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9062827
A Atherosclerosis-related cardiovascular disease remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality in renal transplant patients. We assessed the efficacy and safety of the newer synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, fluvastatin, in 12 renal transplant patients who remained hypercholesterolemic, despite having been on the American Heart Association (AHA) Step I diet for 6 weeks. At 8 weeks, compared to the control phase, fluvastatin therapy, 20 mg/day, reduced the total cholesterol (TC) from 321 +/- 57 [+/-SD] to 301 +/- 123 mg/dl (p = 0.3); low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), from 209 +/- 56 to 176 +/- 81 mg/dl (p = 0.2); and the triglyceride (TG) levels from 343 +/- 119 to 277 +/- 117 mg/dl (p = 0.06); all these changes were statistically insignificant. However, the therapy significantly increased the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) from 37 +/- 11 to 46 +/- 13 mg/dl (p = 0.006). During this short-term treatment period no adverse biochemical effects were noted with the therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9068221
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9069523
We studied an extended family of similar genetic and environmental background to determine whether there is a difference in response to statin therapy in those subjects with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH Afrikaner-1 (FH1) or FH Afrikaner-2 (FH2)) compared to those with familial defective apo B-100 (FDB), or both FH plus FDB. Fasting lipid profiles and Lp(a) levels were done on 18 members of the family and then repeated following 6 weeks of therapy with simvastatin 20 mg daily. Statin therapy reduced LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) by 31% in those with FH (n = 7); 29.8% in FDB (n = 5) and 25.4% in those with both FDB and FH (n = 5). There was no response to statin therapy in the single subject with both FH1, FH2, as well as FDB. Lp(a) levels did not change significantly either within or between any of the groups following statin therapy (FH from 6.5 (1.2-72.3) to 5.3 (1.2-52.3), FDB from 6.1 (4.70-71) to 8.2 (5.7 79) and FDB plus FH from 4.5 (2.6-17.4) to 3.1 (1.9-24) mg/dl). Statins are equally effective in lowering LDL-C in related subjects with heterozygous FH, FDB or both FDB plus FH. The ability of statins to lower LDL-C in FDB is probably due to increased hepatic uptake of lipoprotein precursors of LDL that can bind via apo E receptors. Lp(a) concentration is not reduced by drugs that stimulate LDL receptor activity implying that LDL receptors do not contribute greatly to normal clearance of Lp(a) in hypercholesterolaemic subjects with defects in receptor-mediated endocytosis of LDL.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9070199
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common cause of death in women in the United States. Dyslipidemia is a risk factor for CAD in both men and women. Low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and hypertriglyceridemia, especially in association with a dense low-density lipoprotein (LDL) phenotype, may be of greater importance in women than in men. The relationship between CAD and dyslipidemia and the therapeutic approach to disorders of lipid metabolism in women have unique features because of the effects of exogenous and endogenous hormones on lipid pathways. Estrogen decreases LDL cholesterol and Lp(a) lipoprotein and increases triglyceride and HDL cholesterol levels. Progestogens decrease triglycerides, HDL cholesterol, and Lp(a), and they increase LDL cholesterol. Thus, oral contraceptives increase plasma triglycerides, whereas the effect of these agents on LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol levels is related to the androgenicity and dose of progestogen. Postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy increases triglycerides and decreases LDL cholesterol. The effect of hormone replacement therapy on HDL cholesterol is influenced by the addition of progestogen. Although no primary prevention studies have analyzed lipid lowering and CAD in women, secondary prevention studies have suggested that the response to drug treatment and the benefit of lipid lowering are similar in women and in men. Hormone replacement therapy should be considered in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in postmenopausal women; however, individualization of treatment is important to avoid adverse effects.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9070554
The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study recently demonstrated the benefits of pravastatin therapy in the prevention of coronary heart disease events in middle-aged hypercholesterolemic men without prior myocardial infarction. We present an analysis of the influence of baseline risk factors on coronary events and total mortality in the trial, and their interaction with therapy, using the Cox proportional hazards model. The multivariate predictors of fatal or nonfatal coronary events were treatment allocation (pravastatin or placebo), current smoking, diabetes mellitus, nitrate consumption, minor electrocardiographic abnormalities, angina pectoris, family history of premature coronary death, widowhood, blood pressure, and total cholesterol/high density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio. Independent of other risk factors, pravastatin reduced the risk of definite coronary heart disease death or nonfatal myocardial infarction by 32% (95% confidence interval 17 to 44, p = 0.0001), definite or suspected coronary heart disease death by 35% (3 to 56, p = 0.035), cardiovascular death by 33% (4 to 53, p = 0.027), coronary revascularization procedures by 38% (11 to 56, p = 0.009), and all-cause mortality by 24% (2 to 41, p = 0.037). The 5-year risk of fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, calculated using the predictors identified in the Cox analysis, ranged from <4.4% in the lowest quartile of risk to >9.6% in the highest quartile. The proportional benefit achieved by pravastatin was independent of other risk factors; hence, the absolute benefit of therapy was greatest in subjects with the highest baseline risk. Such subjects can be identified easily in the population and deserve high priority for treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9072285
The rationale for the identification and aggressive treatment of lipid disorders in the patient with established vascular disease is thoroughly convincing. Elevated LDL cholesterol level is one of the few risk factors for which there is evidence of involvement in endothelial dysfunction, smooth-muscle proliferation, plaque destabilization, and thrombosis. Longitudinal studies have identified the role of elevated LDL cholesterol and low HDL cholesterol levels in the natural history of coronary artery disease. Clinical trials have successfully tested the feasibility of preventing coronary events using diet therapy or cholesterol-lowering drugs. These experiments have used a variety of end points, including myocardial infarction, cardiac death, total mortality rate, progression and regression of coronary artery stenoses, and progression of extracardiac atherosclerotic disease. The results are strikingly consistent. Economic analyses of the cost-benefit ratios also support these interventions in high-risk patients. These analyses also suggest that patients at high risk for coronary disease prior to its symptomatic presentation may be identified and treated to provide additional avenues for cost-effective primary prevention of this disease. The cardiologic community cannot ignore these results while embracing interventions such as angioplasty, coronary artery disease, antiarrhythmic therapy, and so forth. The scientific basis of cardiology demands the integration of techniques to control the atherosclerotic disease process itself, rather than merely the symptoms that it produces. Cardiology practices must reorganize to allow these proven interventions to become an integral part of comprehensive cardiologic care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9072290
This article describes the background and methodology of the published studies assessing the effects of cholesterol-lowering therapy and of treatment of multiple risk factors on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis. The results are then presented, followed by a discussion of the lessons that can be learned from this large series of similar trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9076662
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells express lower low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity and higher 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase activity than normal mononuclear blood cells indicating that CLL cells may depend on cholesterol synthesis for their proliferation. We studied the effects of competitive inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase on malignant lymphocyte proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Tumor B-cells from 13 patients with CLL, hairy cell leukemia, or immunoblastic B-cell lymphoma were cultured for 4 d in the presence of B-cell mitogens and cholesterol synthesis inhibitors. Simvastatin and lovastatin suppressed, in a concentration-dependent manner, the mitogen-induced cellular thymidin uptake in medium with 10% human AB-serum or lipoprotein-deficient serum. Pravastatin was active only in medium with lipoprotein-deficient serum. Ten previously untreated patients with CLL received simvastatin orally, 40 mg daily for 12 wk. Mean reductions in total plasma and LDL cholesterol were 30% (range 9-46%) and 37% (range 16-63%), respectively. Cells from four patients showed moderate to minor increases in the degradation rate of 1251-LDL suggesting that the need for exogenous cholesterol had increased, three patients showed an increase in HMG-CoA reductase activity, and the cells from one patient showed both. There was no significant change in the clinical disease status during medication. However, four of the ten patients developed a therapy-demanding progressive disease during the subsequent year. Further clinical studies with cholesterol synthesis inhibitors in leukemia are warranted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9077372
Nicotinic acid, an effective drug for treatment of combined hyperlipidaemia, is often not tolerated because of side-effects. Acipimox is a nicotinic acid like lipid lowering drug with less side-effects. We studied whether the addition of acipimox to simvastatin improves the lipid profile in patients with a combined hyperlipidaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9078811
To evaluate the efficacy of pravastatin in treatment of hypercholesterolemia in non-insulin-dependent diabetes patients, a 6-month trial of once daily 10 mg-pravastatin was studied in 30 patients with fairly, well controlled non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. For 27 patients who completed the study, serum total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were significantly lower 16.7 +/- 2.3 and 20.2 +/- 3.3% from 286.7 +/- 5.9 and 198.6 +/- 7.2 mg/dl at before to 232.6 +/- 7.9 and 147.8 +/- 6.4 mg/dl at 4th week and 237.8 +/- 6.4 and 155.0 +/- 5.8 mg/dl at 24th week after treatment with pravastatin, respectively (P < 0.00001). Serum triglyceride level was decreased from 194.7 +/- 16.8 mg/dl to 175.0 +/- 16.8 mg/dl at 4th week and 176.6 +/- 14.1 mg/dl at 24th week and serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level was slightly increased from 45.4 +/- 2.8 mg/dl to 48.2 +/- 2.5 mg/dl at 4th week and 47.5 +/- 2.6 mg/dl at 24th week of pravastatin treatment, respectively (P > 0.05). There was no serious adverse effect except acute hepatitis in one patient who recovered spontaneously after drug withdrawal. Once daily 10 mg-pravastatin in effective in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9086443
Simvastatin is an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase and also selectively inhibits the growth of leukaemic progenitor cells. The antileukaemic action of simvastatin was compared in vitro with that of lovastatin and pravastatin, chemically related compounds which are also competitive inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase. After 18 hours incubation with 2.5-20 microM of inhibitor, no effect was observed by any of the compounds on the subsequent clonogenic growth of normal bone marrow (BM) progenitor cells from 4 donors and BM cells from one patient in remission. However, simvastatin and lovastatin produced inhibition of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) progenitor cell growth of between 25% and 100% in 5 populations tested (4 primary AMLs and the HL60 cell line). Pravastatin showed similar growth inhibitory effects to simvastatin and lovastatin in 2 out of 3 primary AMLs but was less active against one primary AML cell population and HL60 cells. These results indicate that, in addition to simvastatin, lovastatin and pravastatin are also selective inhibitors of leukaemic cell growth, however simvastatin was chosen for clinical trial in patients with leukaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9088584
We examined the effects of different combinations of beta 1-selective adrenoceptor blockers and lipid-lowering drugs, on fat metabolism and fatigue during moderate intensity exercise in 14 healthy young volunteers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9094885
The Monitored Atherosclerosis Regression Study (MARS) was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled angiographic trial of lipid-lowering therapy in subjects with coronary artery disease. Subjects were counseled to follow a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet. At every clinic visit, data were obtained on body weight, dietary intake, alcohol consumption, and tobacco use. Semiannual determinations of early preintrusive atherosclerosis were made with high-resolution B-mode ultrasonography of the carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT). We evaluated the effects of lifestyle modification (diet, alcohol, smoking, and weight loss) on the rate of carotid artery IMT progression on the 94 subjects randomly assigned to the placebo group. Dietary cholesterol, insoluble fiber, body mass index, and smoking were significant predictors of the annual rate of carotid artery IMT progression (P < 0.05). For subjects experiencing IMT progression, increased intakes of monounsaturated fat relative to saturated fat and stearic acid (18:0) consumption were significant predictors of a reduction in the annual rate of carotid artery IMT progression; for subjects experiencing IMT regression, male sex was a significant predictor of a reduction in the annual rate of carotid artery IMT regression. Modifications reducing body mass index by 5 kg/m2, quitting a 10 cigarette/d smoking habit, and reducing dietary cholesterol intake by 100 mg/d on average would reduce the annual rate of carotid wall IMT progression by 0.13 mm/y, which is equivalent to the maximum rate of IMT progression observed in the MARS placebo group. Progression of early preintrusive atherosclerosis can be reduced and overall regression can occur with dietary and lifestyle modification.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9096917
The objective of this open trial was to investigate the efficacy and safety of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor fluvastatin in hypercholesterolemic patients already receiving probucol. All of the participants had hypercholesterolemia. i.e. serum total cholesterol > or = 220 mg/dl, despite administration of probucol, 500 mg/day, for more than 4 weeks. After this, fluvastatin, 30 mg/day, was added to probucol treatment for 12 weeks. Twenty-seven patients were recruited into this study; all were evaluated for safety, and 22 were evaluated for efficacy. The addition of fluvastatin to the probucol regimen produced a significant further reduction in serum total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations (of 18 and 20%, respectively; p < 0.001); these effects were fully established within 4 weeks of treatment and were maintained throughout the treatment. Fluvastatin did not affect the serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration. Fluvastatin treatment decreased serum triglyceride concentrations slightly in all patients (not significant); in patients with hypertriglyceridemia, triglyceride levels were decreased significantly by 34% (p < 0.01; serum triglycerides > or = 150 mg/dl). In addition, fluvastatin significantly decreased serum apolipoprotein B, C-II, C-III and E levels, whereas serum apolipoprotein A-I and A-II levels were unaffected. One patient complained of slight abdominal discomfort during fluvastatin administration, but relationship to fluvastatin remains unclear. One patient had slight elevation of the serum alanine aminotransferase level, and another patient had an elevated gamma-glutamyl transferase level. The addition of fluvastatin to probucol treatment can be considered to be an effective and well tolerated treatment in hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9096961
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9096989
To assess in diabetic patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) the effect of cholesterol lowering with simvastatin on mortality and the risk of CHD and other atherosclerotic events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9099167
To determine the cost-effectiveness of simvastatin in the secondary prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD) in Canada.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9100140
To assess the effect of a program that encourages teamwork between physicians and pharmacists on attempts to lower total cholesterol levels and to meet recommended goals proposed by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9101013
Initial trials hint that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may have a role in preventing or retarding the progression of AGAS. Whether the potential of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors to prevent AGAS is due to their lipid-lowering effect, immunomodulating properties, or a combination of both is also not completely known at present. Further study is needed to fully identify their mode of preventing AGAS and, more important, to determine their usefulness and role in preventing AGAS, especially since concurrent HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor use with cyclosporine is not innocuous. Potential for a pharmacokinetic drug interaction, which results in an elevation of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor concentrations, exists when these two agents are used together, thus increasing the potential for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor to cause musculoskeletal complications. When such combination therapy is used, the likelihood of this interaction can be reduced by prescribing the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor conservatively--using the smallest effective dose and increasing the daily dosage slowly. Although the risk of musculoskeletal toxicity exists at any HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor dosage, most patients should be able to tolerate daily dosages of up to 20 mg of lovastatin, 10 mg of simvastatin, and 40 mg of pravastatin. Patients also need to be made aware of and monitored for musculoskeletal symptoms suggestive of myositis and/or myalgias. In addition, the avoidance of elevated cyclosporine concentrations and when practical, monitoring of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor concentrations are recommended.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9104901
To evaluate the effect of pravastatin on progression of coronary atherosclerosis in normocholesterolemic patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), 90 patients with CAD and serum cholesterol levels of 160 to 220 mg/dl were randomized into a pravastatin (10 mg/day) group (n = 45) and control group (n = 45) in a 2-year study. The proportions of patients with progression (an increase of > or = 15% in percent stenosis) and regression (a decrease of > or = 15% in percent stenosis) of coronary atherosclerosis were compared between the 2 groups. Of 90 patients, 80 (89%) had a final angiogram: the pravastatin (n = 39) and control group (n = 41). Percent changes in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apoprotein B levels were significantly greater in the pravastatin group than in the control group (total cholesterol -11 +/- 12% vs 3 +/- 15%, p < 0.01; low-density lipoprotein cholesterol -18 +/- 16% vs 4 +/- 21%, p < 0.01; apoprotein B -5 +/- 20% vs 6 +/- 20%, p < 0.05). The proportion of patients with progression of coronary atherosclerosis was significantly smaller in the pravastatin group than in the control group (21% vs 49%, p < 0.05). The proportion of patients with disease regression did not differ in the 2 groups (3% vs 2%, p = NS). In conclusion, this study indicates that cholesterol-lowering therapy with pravastatin can prevent the progression of coronary atherosclerosis even in normocholesterolemic patients with established CAD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9105566
Combined hyperlipoproteinemia (CHL) can be difficult to treat because of the heterogeneous nature of the lipoprotein abnormalities. We compared the relative efficacies of simvastatin and gemfibrozil and sought predictors of responsiveness in terms of the baseline lipids and other potential metabolic determinants (plasma insulin, Lp(a) and apo E genotype). Sixty-six subjects entered a cross-over, randomized trial involving 12 weeks on each drug. Efficacy was assessed after 6 and 12 weeks on each treatment. Simvastatin lowered total cholesterol 24%, triglycerides 12%, LDL cholesterol 33%, raised HDL cholesterol 13% and substantially reduced the cholesterol:triglyceride ratio in VLDL and IDL. Gemfibrozil lowered total cholesterol 5%, triglycerides 44%, raised HDL 26% and reduced VLDL and IDL lipids more than simvastatin did. LDL size increased with both treatments and HDL size increased with simvastatin. Responsiveness (25% fall in cholesterol or 40% fall in triglycerides) was shown by 31/61 subjects when taking simvastatin (cholesterol-lowering) and by 44/60 taking gemfibrozil (triglyceride-lowering). Responsiveness was greatest in those with apo E2 genotype with both drugs (P < 0.05). Unexpectedly, responders to simvastatin tended to have lower baseline total cholesterol but higher triglyceride levels than those whose cholesterol or triglyceride was lowered by gemfibrozil. Nevertheless, more hypercholesterolemic subjects responded to simvastatin and more hypertriglyceridemic subjects to gemfibrozil. Lp(a) (P = 0.04) and plasma insulin concentrations (P = 0.03) were negative predictors of percentage triglyceride-lowering with gemfibrozil. The difference between the two drugs in triglyceride-lowering lessened with rising insulin and falling HDL cholesterol. Thus, the responsiveness to the two major classes of lipid lowering drugs can be partly predicted from baseline lipids and related metabolic parameters.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9107233
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9110440
To evaluate the influence of age on response to pravastatin treatment in patients treated by community physicians.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9114767
Major changes will be required in the components and delivery of cardiac rehabilitation services in the era of managed care. These include restructuring and amplifying the coronary risk reduction services that are currently provided, and offering group and home-based cardiac rehabilitation services to increase their availability.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9114914
Pravastatin is an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor used in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia. The steady state pharmacokinetics of pravastatin (20 mg) and digoxin (0.2 mg) were evaluated in 18 healthy male subjects following the administration of each drug alone or in combination for 9 days. Serum and urine were collected for up to 48 h after the ninth dose in this open, randomized 3-way crossover study. Digoxin concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay, and pravastatin and its metabolites. SQ 31,906 and SQ 31,945 were measured by GC-MS. Digoxin and pravastatin pharmacokinetics were unchanged following combined administration. Combination therapy with pravastatin and digoxin is unlikely to expose patients to additional risk compared with pravastatin alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9115054
In a clinical trial, the changes in LDL cholesterol and in total apolipoprotein B with time were analyzed using a one-compartment model with constant input rate and first-order elimination rate constant after the initiation and discontinuation of treatment with atorvastatin. After initiation of treatment, input rate for total apoplipoprotein B (21 mg/dL/day) and elimination rate constants for both total apoplipoprotein B (0.36 days-1) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (0.24 days-1) were similar to those reported for LDL-apolipoprotein B at steady state during treatment with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. However, after discontinuation of treatment, very low elimination rate constants of 0.09 days-1 for LDL cholesterol and 0.07 days-1 for total apolipoprotein B are obtained. A likely explanation is that the model incorrectly assumes an immediate return to the pretreatment state, whereas transient stimulation of hepatic cholesterol synthesis on discontinuation of therapy with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is known to occur.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9117137
Clinical, angiographic and ultrasonographic data from new trials of the primary and secondary prevention of atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease with lipid-lowering therapy are reviewed. In the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study pravastatin significantly decreased cardiovascular events in asymptomatic men with moderate hypercholesterolaemia without increasing noncardiovascular mortality. The favourable effects of pravastatin may also extent to carotid arteries. Preliminary data from the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events Study testify to the value of lowering cholesterol in patients with near normocholesterolaemia and established coronary artery disease. New angiographic and ultrasonographic studies concur with findings of previous trials and indicate that the benefits of statins extend to noncoronary vascular beds. Meta-regression analysis of angiographic trials shows that optimal treatment for regression of coronary artery disease should aim for an LDL-cholesterol of approximately 3.0 mmol/l. The value of regulating high plasma triglyceride and low HDL-cholesterol has been emphasized by a bezafibrate study. Angiographic trials also suggest that aggressive pharmacotherapy may match the beneficial effects of LDL apheresis in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. Post-hoc analyses from previous angiographic trials have provided new hypotheses for future studies. The implications of the new evidence presented is examined, as well as issues of cholesterol screening and the economics of treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9117138
The effectiveness of cholesterol lowering is well established, but cost-effectiveness is an increasing issue because of financial pressures on healthcare services. New statin studies have prospectively demonstrated that secondary prevention of coronary heart disease is almost always cost-effective, as is primary prevention in individuals at higher risk who have one or more other additional risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9117139
The small LDL pattern B trait, and triglyceride rich lipoproteins, have now been established as major coronary heart disease risk factors and have been associated with its severity. The presence of these disorders identifies a patient subgroup which is at substantial coronary artery disease risk but also exhibits the best arteriographic response to treatment. Most lipid-lowering treatments have a differential effect in LDL subclass pattern A patients compared with those with pattern B that helps explain the differential arteriographic response seen in clinical trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9117143
The successful use of statins in major coronary prevention trials has resulted in an explosive widening of their use. In most instances, statin therapy will result in adequate and sustained lowering of lipids. Comparing equal-weight doses, simvastatin is twice as effective as pravastatin and lovastatin in LDL-cholesterol lowering, and all three are more effective than fluvastatin according to recent comparative studies. Statin monotherapy is not always effective in severe hypercholesterolemia or in mixed (combined) hyperlipidemia with marked triglyceride elevations. All statins accepted for therapeutic use can be combined with resin or fibrate. Myopathy resulting from statin-fibrate combinations is less frequent than had been thought on the basis of early reports, and these combinations can be used in long-term therapy of mixed hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9118815
If dietary therapy and other lifestyle changes do not adequately normalise blood lipid levels, lipid-regulating drugs, as single-drug or combination-drug therapy, may be prescribed to supplement lifestyle changes. Evaluation of the individual patient's health and risk status, determination of the dyslipidaemia, definition of treatment goals and a clear understanding of the mechanisms and effects of lipid-regulating agents are necessary for optimisation of treatment. Although all the available lipid-regulating agents lower low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, the agents with the greatest LDL cholesterol-lowering effect are the bile acid sequestrants, which up-regulate the LDL receptor by the decrease in intrahepatic cholesterol caused by the interruption of enterohepatic circulation of cholesterol-rich bile acids, and the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, which partially inhibit HMG-CoA reductase. The agents with the greatest triglyceride-lowering effect are nicotinic acid, which decreases the production of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol and reduces the availability of free fatty acids in the circulation, and the fibric acid derivatives, which increase lipoprotein lipase activity and may also decrease the release of free fatty acids. Although the safety profile of the available lipid-regulating drugs has been established, patients should be monitored for potential adverse effects and interactions with concomitantly administered agents. When used correctly, lipid-regulating drug therapy is highly effective in the treatment of a variety of dyslipidaemias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9118820
The lipid-modifying profile of bezafibrate is characterised by marked decreases in elevated triglyceride levels, increases in high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels and decreases in total and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels. Bezafibrate also reduces elevated levels of lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] and fibrinogen, which are independent cardiovascular risk factors. Bezafibrate is effective in most types of primary and secondary dyslipidaemia. It is of greatest benefit in conditions featuring hypertriglyceridaemia and/or HDL cholesterol deficiency. This is particularly true for patients with diabetes mellitus, notably those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) who are also likely to have increased fibrinogen levels. In the limited comparisons available, there appear to be few consistent differences in lipid-modifying effects between bezafibrate and other fibrates. Compared with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, bezafibrate causes larger changes in triglyceride and, in general, HDL cholesterol levels, and has a lesser influence on LDL and total cholesterol levels. These differences are advantageous when bezafibrate and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are used as combined therapy in patients with severe dyslipidaemia unresponsive to either modality alone. The combination of bezafibrate plus an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor in clinical trials has not led to the predicted increase in myalgia. Indeed, bezafibrate is generally free of serious unwanted effects: rhabdomyolysis is rare and has occurred mainly in patients with renal dysfunction given excessive dosages. Other patient groups in whom bezafibrate has improved serum lipid profiles are those with isolated HDL cholesterol deficiency, dyslipidaemia secondary to renal insufficiency, and following cardiac surgery or other procedures. However, data for these indications are not extensive. Evidence is now available to show a beneficial effect of bezafibrate on retarding atherosclerotic processes and in reducing risk of coronary heart disease. The 5-year Bezafibrate Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (BECAIT) in young male survivors of myocardial infarction demonstrated a smaller decrease in luminal diameter and a reduction in coronary events with bezafibrate compared with placebo. The Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention (BIP) study is expected to provide mortality data which is currently lacking for bezafibrate. In conclusion, bezafibrate is a useful and well-tolerated lipid-modifying agent in the management of primary and secondary dyslipidaemia. It has particularly beneficial effects in patients with hypertriglyceridaemia and/or low HDL cholesterol levels, and reduces fibrinogen levels. Together with its ability to sustain or improve glycaemic control, these properties make it a logical choice for treating patients with diabetes mellitus and dyslipidaemia. Additionally, the drug may be of value as combination therapy in patients with severe dyslipidaemia. Importantly, there is evidence that the drug can slow the atherosclerotic process and reduce cardiovascular morbidity. The ongoing BIP secondary intervention study and other investigations will help clarify the effects of bezafibrate on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9122535
Sixty-seven subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia were enrolled in an open study with "low dosages" of inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3methylglutaril coenzyme A reductase. Patients were randomized in comparative and parallel study with simvastatin 10 mg (30 subjects) and pravastatin 20 mg (27 subjects) once in the evening for a treatment period of 12 months. At the end of the treatment the plasma concentrations of total and LDL cholesterol were reduced respectively by 21% (p < 0.001) and 29% (p < 0.001), plasma triglyceride concentration was reduced by 16%, high density lipoprotein (HDL) was increased by 2.9%. The efficacy of drugs was increasing during the study: at the third month 63% of subjects and at the twelfth month 89% of subjects showed a LDL < 160 mg/dL. In this study the drugs were well-tolerated, but 11 subjects showed a slight and transitory increase of CK. A treated group with simvastatin showed a similar decrease of the total cholesterol and LDL as that one treated with pravastatin. Pravastatin in comparison with simvastatin reduced significantly plasma triglycerides. There was no significant difference between the groups in the frequency of drug-related adverse effects. In conclusion "low dosages" of simvastatin and pravastatin in long term treatment were very efficacious in the reduction of total and LDL cholesterol. In our study, the decrease of total and LDL cholesterol was time-dependent, with the greatest reduction after sixth months. There were no significant differences between 10 mg of simvastatin and 20 mg of pravastatin on reduction of total and LDL cholesterol levels. Triglycerides decreased significantly only with pravastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9125320
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9126664
Plasma cholesterol and other lipoproteins play a significant role in the development of atherosclerosis and subsequent coronary heart disease (CHD). This 1 year study was designed to confirm the efficacy and safety of atorvastatin (Lipitor) compared to pravastatin, a marketed agent for low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction in hypercholesterolemic patients. Patients were recruited at 26 centers in six European countries. After a 6 week placebo baseline phase, patients were randomized to receive atorvastatin 10 mg or pravastatin 20 mg daily. The dose could be doubled at week 16, if LDL-C levels remained > or = 3.4 mmol/l (135 mg/dl). Atorvastatin significantly lowered LDL-C from baseline by 35% compared with 23% for pravastatin (P < 0.05). A total of 72% of atorvastatin patients attained the LDL-C target level of < 3.4 mmol/l, compared to 26% of pravastatin patients. Atorvastatin also significantly reduced TC, TG and apo B (P < 0.05). Safety was assessed by recording adverse events and measuring clinical laboratory parameters. The adverse event profile was similar for both treatment groups and neither treatment caused clinically relevant laboratory abnormalities. Atorvastatin 10 and 20 mg once daily is superior to pravastatin 20 and 40 mg once daily in treating patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9127708
Homocysteine is an intermediate compound formed during metabolism of methionine. The results of many recent studies have indicated that elevated plasma levels of homocyst(e)ine are associated with increased risk of coronary atherosclerosis, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, and thrombosis. The plasma level of homocyst(e)ine is dependent on genetically regulated levels of essential enzymes and the intake of folic acid, vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), and vitamin B12 (cobalamin). Impaired renal function, increased age, and pharmacologic agents (e.g. nitrous oxide, methotrexate) can contribute to increased levels of homocyst(e)ine. Plausible mechanisms by which homocyst(e)ine might contribute to atherogenesis include promotion of platelet activation and enhanced coagulability, increased smooth muscle cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, induction of endothelial dysfunction, and stimulation of LDL oxidation. Levels of homocysteine can be reduced with pharmacologic doses of folic acid, pyridoxine, vitamin B12, or betaine, but further research is required to determine the efficacy of this intervention in reducing morbidity and mortality associated with atherosclerotic vascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9129860
The Monitored Atherosclerosis Regression Study was a double-blind, 2-year, placebo-controlled, randomized, serial angiographic trial which tested reduction of low density lipoprotein-cholesterol with monotherapy using lovastatin on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis. Angiographic outcome was evaluated both by a panel of human readers who visually inspected matched film pairs to arrive at a global change score and by automated computerized vessel edge finding and lesion measurement (quantitative coronary angiography, QCA). In this paper, we model the association between QCA measures of coronary artery lesion change and the panel-based global change score. QCA measures included: per-patient changes in percent diameter stenosis and minimum lumen diameter averaged over all lesions; per-patient changes in average diameter and percent involvement averaged over all segments; the numbers of progressing and regressing lesions and new total occlusions; and the development of any new lesions. We found that when evaluating coronary artery lesion change, panelists evaluate changes in percent diameter stenosis for both low grade (< 50% diameter stenosis at baseline) and high grade (> or = 50% diameter stenosis at baseline) lesions as well as new total occlusions and the number of progressing lesions. Although computerized quantification of the size of a lesion at baseline and as an endpoint may be a more precise measure than that by human panel interpretation, QCA fails to incorporate many other important aspects of coronary angiographic change visualized over the entire coronary artery tree by a panel of human interpreters. Thus, the global change score provides a "multiple endpoint" for coronary angiographic trials which does not suffer from the problems of statistical analysis and interpretation of multiple hypothesis tests which usually accompany true multiple endpoint measures. Choice of either or both endpoints in preparing angiographic trials depends on careful consideration of the desired information as well as the cost of carrying out the endpoint analysis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9129869
Atorvastatin is a synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor which lowers plasma cholesterol levels by inhibiting endogenous cholesterol synthesis. It also reduces triglyceride levels through an as yet unproven mechanism. Dose-dependent reductions in total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol and triglyceride levels have been observed with atorvastatin in patients with hypercholesterolaemia and in patients with hypertriglyceridaemia. In large trials involving patients with hypercholesterolaemia, atorvastatin produced greater reductions in total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, apolipoprotein B and triglyceride levels than lovastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin. In patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia, the combination of atorvastatin and colestipol tended to produce larger reductions in LDL-cholesterol levels and smaller reductions in triglyceride levels than atorvastatin monotherapy. Although atorvastatin induced smaller reductions in triglyceride levels and more modest increases in high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels than either fenofibrate or nicotinic acid in patients with combined hyperlipidaemia, it produced larger reductions in total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol. As with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, the most frequently reported adverse events associated with atorvastatin are gastrointestinal effects. In comparative trials, atorvastatin had a similar adverse event profile to that of other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Clinical data with atorvastatin are limited at present. However, with its ability to markedly reduce LDL-cholesterol levels, atorvastatin is likely to join other members of its class as a first-line agent for the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolaemia, if changes in lipid levels with atorvastatin convert to reductions in CHD mortality and morbidity. Atorvastatin may be particularly suitable for patients with heterozygous or homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia because of the marked reductions in LDL-cholesterol experienced with the drug. Additionally, because of its triglyceride-lowering properties, atorvastatin appears to have the potential to become an appropriate treatment for patients with combined hyperlipidaemia or hypertriglyceridaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9130876
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9133510
Although LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) is generally accepted to be a major risk factor for progression of atherosclerosis, the traditional measurement of LDL-C includes measurement of IDL. Little is known about the relationship between IDL and progression of atherosclerosis. Therefore, we investigated the association of plasma lipoprotein subclasses with progression of preintrusive carotid artery atherosclerosis in the Monitored Atherosclerosis Regression Study (MARS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9134232
1. The aim of this study was to determine whether BAYw6228 (BAYw), a newly developed 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, could suppress an atherogenic process such as intimal thickening by a mechanism other than lowering the level of serum cholesterol. 2. First, we evaluated the in vitro effect of BAYw on the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (SMC) from various species: Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. New Zealand (NZ) white rabbits, intimal cells from Watanabe hereditary hyperlipidemic (WHHL) rabbit and SMC from the new-born human aorta. The increasing rate of total protein content of these cells was inhibited by the addition of BAYw in a dose-dependent fashion. In the presence of 2% foetal calf serum (FCS), the value of IC50 was 1.0 microM in SD rats, 2.1 microM in NZ white rabbits, and 0.3 microM in WHHL rabbits. With human SMC, the value was 0.02 microM in the presence of 10% FCS and 0.2 microM with a mixture of growth factors. 3. Based on these above in vitro findings, we next examined the in vivo effect of the agent to determine whether it could suppress rabbit intimal thickening induced by balloon catheterization. A balloon catheter was inserted from a peripheral branch of the left external carotid artery to the aorta to denude the endothelium of the left common carotid artery in Japanese white rabbits. After 12 days they were divided into control and BAYw groups. The former were subcutaneously injected with saline and the latter with BAYw 1 mg kg-1 day-1. Two days after the beginning of treatment, a second balloon injury was performed to the previously injured left common carotid artery in both groups. After another two weeks, the left common carotid artery was removed and variously stained. Although the total serum cholesterol in the BAYw group was significantly lower than in the control (P < 0.05), the difference was not enough to affect intimal thickening. In addition, the BAYw group had a smaller intima/media ratio than the control group, decreasing to 45% of control (P < 0.05). By anti-alpha smooth muscle actin antibody staining, these intimal thickening areas were entirely occupied by SMCs, and their amount was attenuated by BAYw. By anti-rabbit macrophage antibody (RAM 11) staining, the number of positive cells in the intimal thickening was markedly decreased in the BAYw group compared to control (P < 0.01). 4. These results indicate that BAYw has an inhibitory effect on intimal thickening by attenuating intimal SMC proliferation and infiltration of macrophages, suggesting that BAYw could be effective in the prevention of the progression of atherosclerotic plaque-like restenosis after angioplasty.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9137901
A 16 week, randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled study was designed to determine the effects of low-dose pravastatin on cholesterol concentrations in patients with mild hypercholesterolemia and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Following a 6-to 8-week dietary run-in period, a mean serum total cholesterol (TC) level > 5.2 mmol/L (200 mg/dL), but < 7.8 mmol/L (300 mg/dL) was required for entry. Metabolic control of diabetes was determined by a hemoglobin Alc (HbAlc) level less than twice the upper limit of normal on two occasions. Eighty six (86) patients recruited in 5 French diabetic clinics, were randomized in a ratio of 1:1 (pravastatin 10 mg or placebo), and 74 completed the study. There were 12 discontinuations: 5 (11.6%) in the pravastatin group and 7 (16.3%) in the placebo group. Drop-out was due to an adverse event in 1 patient (2.3%) in the pravastatin group and in 5 patients (11.6%) in the placebo group. Thirty five (35) placebo patients and 14 pravastatin patients had their dose of treatment doubled at week 8: the dose of treatment was to be doubled at week 8 in the event of non-response to treatment (TC at week 7 > 5.2 mmol/L and TC decrease < 15% from baseline). At week 16, pravastatin lowered TC from 6.4 to 5.6 mmol/L (-13.8%, p < 0.001 versus placebo), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) from 4.3 to 3.4 mmol/L (-20.4%, p < 0.001 versus placebo) and slightly increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) from 1.18 to 1.25 mmol/L (+6.7%). Side effects were similar in both groups. Blood glucose control was not altered as assessed by serial HbAlc measurements which were unchanged during treatment. This study demonstrated that low-dose pravastatin is effective in lowering cholesterol levels in patients with hypercholesterolemia and NIDDM.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9140266
There seems little doubt that triglycerides are causally related to the progress of atherogenesis. Mechanisms for this effect include adverse quantitative and qualitative changes in circulating lipoproteins. In particular, the effects of lower high-density lipoprotein levels and the production by hypertriglyceridemia of small, dense low-density lipoproteins are of great significance. The role of triglyceride-rich remnant particles in atherogenesis is likely important. These remnants, which are lipoproteins rich in both cholesterol and triglycerides, can be shown to produce cholesteryl ester-laden macrophages in vitro and are probably atherogenic in vivo. Triglyceride levels are a significant risk factor for coronary artery disease in women, more so than in men. Triglyceride levels also increase in older patients and continue to be predictors of coronary risk in both men and women older than 65 years. It is unclear whether triglyceride intervention efforts should be directed at lowering triglyceride levels (such as is accomplished with niacin or fibric acid derivatives) or lowering low-density lipoprotein levels in patients with high triglyceride levels, assuming triglyceride levels are only a passive marker of atherosclerotic risk. Until more is known about the precise role of hypertriglyceridemia in atherogenesis in women and older patients, use of triglyceride-lowering drugs should be conservative and limited to those individuals with high triglyceride levels (> 4.5 mmol/L [> 400 mg/dL]) who do not respond to diet modifications and who are at risk of coronary disease either because of a history of vascular disease or the presence of other risk factors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9141968
To correlate angiocardiographic and electrocardiographic (ECG) measures of risk in coronary artery disease (CAD) patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9149652
Growing evidence suggests that lowering serum cholesterol levels, particularly low-density lipoprotein levels, will reduce the risk for coronary heart disease. The benefit of cholesterol-lowering therapy has been documented by many clinical trials. Two secondary prevention trials, the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study and the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events trial, demonstrated a striking reduction in recurrent coronary heart disease without an increase in noncardiovascular mortality; treatment with simvastatin reduced total mortality by 30 percent. A primary prevention trial, the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study, demonstrated similar results in high-risk patients without established coronary heart disease. More recent angiographic trials revealed that cholesterol-lowering therapy will reduce progression of atherosclerosis and, in some cases, will reverse existing lesions. Use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors also appears to be beneficial and safe. Evidence supports cholesterol-lowering therapy in high-risk patients, both with and without established atherosclerotic disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9150246
The effects of 6 HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: pravastatin, lovastatin, simvastatin, atorvastatin, fluvastatin and cerivastatin were analyzed in cultured human smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts, endothelial cells and myoblasts. In vascular smooth muscle cells, pravastatin was a much weaker inhibitor of cholesterol synthesis than the 5 other drugs which displayed equally strong inhibitory potency. The anti-proliferative effects of these 6 drugs were analyzed by measuring cell number and mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity (MTT assay) after 3 days of incubation. IC25 values for inhibition of proliferation were very similar among the 4 cell types and were in the following order of magnitude: pravastatin < lovastatin = simvastatin = atorvastatin = fluvastatin < cerivastatin. Only in the case of pravastatin was proliferation inhibited at lower concentration in smooth muscle cells than in the other cell types. Proliferation was also assessed by measuring DNA synthesis in these cells. A 3 day-incubation with 1 microM of pravastatin had no effect on this parameter in all 4 cell types. However, 1 microM of simvastatin or lovastatin caused either an inhibition (in smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells) or stimulation (in fibroblasts) of this process. The effects of simvastatin on cell number, mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity and DNA synthesis were counteracted by simultaneous mevalonate addition. Simvastatin treatment was also associated with a change in the post-translational modification of the ras protein in smooth muscle cells, probably by inhibition of its farnesylation. Moreover, simvastatin treatment blocked the PDGF and bFGF-induced DNA synthesis in synchronized smooth muscle cells, whereas it does not affect the fetal calf serum-induced DNA synthesis in synchronized fibroblasts, suggesting that simvastatin blocks various steps of the cell cycle and that this effect depends on the cell type and the growth signalling pathway activated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9152263
We conducted an historical cohort study to evaluate the relative effectiveness of niacin and lovastatin in the treatment of dyslipidemias in patients enrolled in a health maintenance organization (HMO).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9156156
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9158202
As understanding of the molecular basis for the immune response has expanded rapidly, so have the possibilities for designing therapeutic interventions that are more effective, more specific, and safer than current treatment options. The promise of therapeutic advances in the future is based on the rapidly expanding insights into the pathogenesis of abnormal immunologic reactions. Nowhere is the understanding of molecular mechanisms, pathophysiology, and targeted therapy more relevant than in the field of renal transplantation, which makes up much of the clinical database for the use of immunosuppressive therapy for renal disease. Despite the recent advances in basic immunology, clinical validation of new agents and approaches is lacking for most drugs at present. This review will focus in the pharmacology of agents used in the therapy of immunologic renal disease and in renal transplantation. It should be recognized that clinical pharmacology and experience with newer agents is limited, and potential utility is based largely on experimental data.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9158261
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9158627
Risk factors for carotid atherosclerosis have been studied in white populations but infrequently in multiethnic cohorts. The aim of this study was to determine the importance of race-ethnicity and other factors associated with carotid atherosclerosis in a mixed population of Hispanics, blacks, and whites.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9158630
To estimate the effect of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors ("statins") on stroke ris, we combined the data of the randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trials with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors published so far.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9158824
Cell membrane cholesterol is an important determinant of membrane fluidity. Changes in fluidity have important consequences for membrane function. Treatment of hypercholesterolaemia could therefore affect membrane function by reducing cell membrane cholesterol levels. The aim of this study was to determine whether treatment with simvastatin affects membrane cholesterol and the activity of the polymorphonuclear cell membrane enzyme NADPH oxidase. Blood was obtained from 12 hypercholesterolaemic patients before, and 6 weeks after, treatment with simvastatin, and from 20 normolipidaemic subjects. Cell cholesterol was in the unesterified from indicating that it was membrane-associated. Pre-treatment mean cell cholesterol concentration in the hyperlipidaemics was higher (P < 0.05) than in the normolipidaemics [4.19 fmol/cell, 95% confidence interval (CI) 3.38-5.05 versus 3.10 fmol/cell, 95% CI 2.58-3.61]. There was a strong correlation between cell cholesterol content and NADPH oxidase lag phase (R(s) = 0.76, P < 0.01). Cell cholesterol fell to 3.52 fmol/cell (95% CI 2.77-4.28, P < 0.05) following treatment and there was a correlation (R(s) = 0.61, P < 0.05) between the reductions in cell cholesterol and lag phase.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9159603
This review's purpose is to describe for the practicing clinician the current knowledge about patient compliance to cholesterol-altering drugs and about procedures for compliance management applicable to clinical practice in the United States. Compliance is defined for four commonly measured major steps and, based on recent electronic monitoring data, for three quantitative categories of active medication-taking. The concepts and definition of compliance are undergoing evolutionary changes due to the measurement and availability of new dimensions through electronic monitoring of patient compliance. Substantial non-compliance to cholesterol-altering drugs has been reported in nine large clinical trials for primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, in two HMOs, and, using electronic monitoring of compliance, in one clinical trial and a selected practice. The risks of treatment discontinuation increased continuously during treatment and totaled from 6 to 30% after 5 years. Patterns of day-to-day partial compliance are emerging. Procedures and knowledge for clinical management of compliance are described including methods of measuring compliance, risk factors for non-compliance, standards for compliance performance, epidemiology of compliance, procedures for managing compliance at the start of therapy and for addressing compliance problems during established treatment, simple office assessment of compliance by brief interview questions, compliance aids, prediction of compliance, and education and training of medical-care personnel in compliance management.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9160173
Hypercholesterolaemia plays a crucial role in the development of atherosclerotic diseases in general and coronary heart disease in particular. The risk of progression of the atherosclerotic process to coronary heart disease increases progressively with increasing levels of total serum cholesterol or low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol at both the individual and the population level. The statins are reversible inhibitors of the microsomal enzyme HMG-CoA reductase, which converts HMG-CoA to mevalonate. This is an early rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis. Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase by statins decreases intracellular cholesterol biosynthesis, which then leads to transcriptionally upregulated production of microsomal HMG-CoA reductase and cell surface LDL receptors. Subsequently, additional cholesterol is provided to the cell by de novo synthesis and by receptor-mediated uptake of LDL-cholesterol from the blood. This resets intracellular cholesterol homeostasis in extrahepatic tissues, but has little effect on the overall cholesterol balance. There are no simple methods to investigate the concentration-dependent inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase in human pharmacodynamic studies. The main clinical variable is plasma LDL-cholesterol, which takes 4 to 6 weeks to show a reduction after the start of statin treatment. Consequently, a dose-effect rather than a concentration-effect relationship is more appropriate to use in describing the pharmacodynamics. Fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin have similar pharmacodynamic properties; all can reduce LDL-cholesterol by 20 to 35%, a reduction which has been shown to achieve decreases of 30 to 35% in major cardiovascular outcomes. Simvastatin has this effect at doses of about half those of the other 3 statins. The liver is the target organ for the statins, since it is the major site of cholesterol biosynthesis, lipoprotein production and LDL catabolism. However, cholesterol biosynthesis in extrahepatic tissues is necessary for normal cell function. The adverse effects of HMG-reductase inhibitors during long term treatment may depend in part upon the degree to which they act in extrahepatic tissues. Therefore, pharmacokinetic factors such as hepatic extraction and systemic exposure to active compound(s) may be clinically important when comparing the statins. Different degrees of liver selectivity have been claimed for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. However, the literature contains confusing data concerning the degree of liver versus tissue selectivity. Human pharmacokinetic data are poor and incomplete, especially for lovastatin and simvastatin, and it is clear that any conclusion on tissue selectivity is dependent upon the choice of experimental model. However, the drugs do differ in some important aspects concerning the degree of metabolism and the number of active and inactive metabolites. The rather extensive metabolism by different cytochrome P450 isoforms also makes it difficult to characterise these drugs regarding tissue selectivity unless all metabolites are well characterised. The effective elimination half-lives of the hydroxy acid forms of the 4 statins are 0.7 to 3.0 hours. Protein binding is similar (> 90%) for fluvastatin, lovastatin and simvastatin, but it is only 50% for pravastatin. The best characterised statins from a clinical pharmacokinetic standpoint are fluvastatin and pravastatin. The major difference between these 2 compounds is the higher liver extraction of fluvastatin during the absorption phase compared with pravastatin (67 versus 45%, respectively, in the same dose range). Estimates of liver extraction in humans for lovastatin and simvastatin are poorly reported, which makes a direct comparison difficult.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9162604
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the most common cause of premature death in diabetes. Hypercholesterolaemia occurs in diabetes with about the same frequency as in the general population, but it confers a greater risk of CHD in diabetes. Hypertriglyceridaemia and low serum high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels are more common in diabetes, particularly non-insulin-dependent diabetes. Nephropathy increases the severity of dyslipoproteinaemia. There remains a reluctance to apply the results of cholesterol-lowering trials to diabetes. No trial has been specifically in diabetes, but this should not constrain the treatment of diabetic patients at clearly high CHD risk. It is suggested that fasting lipids should be measured in all diabetic patients aged less than 70 years with established CHD or whose non-fasting cholesterol is >6.00 mmol I(-1) or triglycerides >3.00 mmol I(-1). For those with raised lipids glycaemic control should be improved, if possible, and dietary therapy aimed at a decrease in fat intake, particularly saturated fat, and weight reduction in the obese. Lipid-lowering drugs are required in patients with CHD and serum cholesterol >5.5 mmol I(-1) with the aim of decreasing non-HDL to <4.00 mmol I(-1). In patients without CHD lipid-lowering drugs should be considered when serum cholesterol exceeds 6.5 mmol I(-1) and the risk of CHD is greater than 20 % over the next 10 years. There is no evidence that pursuing this policy beyond the age of 70 years is beneficial. Diabetic women with dyslipoproteinaemia should, however, be treated in the same way as men. The knowledge that hypertriglyceridaemia and low serum HDL cholesterol are present helps in the assessment of CHD risk and the choice of medication to decrease non-HDL cholesterol, but there is no evidence that their treatment in the absence of raised cholesterol is of benefit.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9162756
2,3-Oxidosqualene:lanosterol cyclase (OSC, E.C. 5.4.99.7) represents a unique target for a cholesterol lowering drug. Partial inhibition of OSC should reduce synthesis of lanosterol and subsequent sterols, and also stimulate the production of epoxysterols that repress HMG-CoA reductase expression, generating a synergistic, self-limited negative regulatory loop. Hence, the pharmacological properties of Ro 48-8.071, a new OSC inhibitor, were compared to that of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, simvastatin. Ro 48-8.071 blocked human liver OSC and cholesterol synthesis in HepG2 cells in the nanomolar range; in cells it triggered the production of monooxidosqualene, dioxidosqualene, and epoxycholesterol. It was safe in hamsters, squirrel monkeys and Gttingen minipigs at pharmacologically active doses, lowering LDL approximately 60% in hamsters, and at least 30% in the two other species, being at least as efficacious as safe doses of simvastatin. The latter was hepatotoxic in hamsters at doses > 30 mumol/kg/day limiting its window of efficacy. Hepatic monooxidosqualene increased dose-dependently after treatment with Ro 48-8.071, up to approximately 20 micrograms/g wet liver or less than 1% of hepatic cholesterol, and it was inversely correlated with LDL levels. Ro 48-8.071 did not reduce coenzyme Q10 levels in liver and heart of hamsters, and importantly did not trigger an overexpression of hepatic HMG-CoA reductase, squalene synthase, and OSC itself. In strong contrast, simvastatin stimulated these enzymes dramatically, and reduced coenzyme Q10 levels in liver and heart. Altogether these findings clearly differentiate the OSC inhibitor Ro 48-8.071 from simvastatin, and support the view that OSC is a distinct key component in the regulation of the cholesterol synthesis pathway.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9164896
A placebo-controlled, double-blind study on the efficacy of atorvastatin was conducted in several multicenters. Atorvastatin reduced total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B substantially in a dose-dependent manner without any serious adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9164913
Pravastatin treatment of combined hyperlipidemia lowers low-density lipoprotein effectively; nicotinic acid lowers remnant cholesterol and raises high-density lipoprotein. A combination of these 2 drugs may be indicated for optimal treatment of lipoprotein abnormalities in combined hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9165562
We conducted a prospective trial to determine whether a formal, integrated pharmaceutical care plan can enhance patient acceptance and compliance with colestipol therapy and improve outcomes. Forty patients with hypercholesterolemia were equally divided and assigned to either a usual care or pharmaceutical care group. In the pharmaceutical care group compared with the usual care group, after 52 weeks, colestipol therapy resulted in a greater reduction in total cholesterol (12.5% vs 7.3%), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C; 16% vs 9.4%), and LDL-C:high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) ratio (24.4% vs 12.2%, p < 0.05). The percentage of patients who achieved their LDL-C goal at week 52 was much greater in the pharmaceutical care group (29.4%) than in the usual care group (5.0%, p < 0.05). Co-management by a physician and a pharmacist of hypercholesterolemic veterans treated with colestipol can enhance patient acceptance of the drug, LDL-C reduction, and achievement of therapeutic goals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9175401
The essential problem of the vicious circle leading to end-stage cardiovascular disease is atherosclerosis. This paper focuses on the functional changes centred on the endothelium that accompany the development of atherosclerosis, examining in particular pathological alterations in the L-arginine/nitric oxide (NO) pathway. Changes in the NO system are associated with altered platelet and monocyte interactions with the vessel wall, abnormal vasoconstriction and altered vascular structure. Diabetes, hyperglycaemia, hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia are all involved in this process. Endothelin is a vasoconstrictor peptide produced by endothelial cells which is upregulated under these conditions. Normalising endothelial function could involve platelet inhibition, lipid-lowering agents to prevent foam cell formation and decrease the lipid load of the blood vessel wall, and agents to interfere with some of the mechanisms involved in vasoconstriction, proliferation and migration, including ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists, and possibly new tools such as endothelin receptor antagonists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9175404
Atherosclerosis is an increasing problem, largely due to lifestyle changes. Lipid accumulates in artery walls throughout life, and infiltration into the subintimal space of cholesterol and cholesterol esters and of inflammatory cells can lead to narrowing, clotting, thrombosis and death. Lipid-lowering agents, particularly statins [(3-hydroxy-3-methylglutarate coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors] represent one important approach to treatment. They work by blocking the conversion of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutarate into mevalonate, a precursor of cholesterol. The West Of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) was a large prospective randomised study comparing the effects of pravastatin versus that of placebo in 6595 middle-aged men. In the pravastatin group the rate of fatal or non-fatal myocardial infarction was reduced by one-third over 5 years, the rate of cardiovascular deaths by one-third, and overall deaths by 22% relative to the placebo group. Implications of the results are considered and the results of the US-CARE study are compared. Discussion of relative and absolute risk, and continuous and discrete risk factors leads to the formulation of rational cost/beneficial strategies for decreasing cardiovascular risk by targeting high-risk individuals with lipid-lowering drugs.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9180238
Analysis of trials which have investigated the effects of lowering low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels on coronary heart disease (CHD), as determined by changes on quantitative coronary angiography and in the incidence of cardiovascular events, suggests that the percentage decrease in LDL cholesterol provides a better index of outcome than does its absolute level on treatment. Additional data suggest that it may be advantageous to employ therapy which not only lowers LDL cholesterol but also decreases serum triglyceride and/or increases HDL cholesterol. These conclusions have important implications for future guidelines on CHD prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9180240
Preclinical and clinical data on atorvastatin, a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, indicate that it has superior activity in treating a variety of dyslipidemic disorders characterized by elevations in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and/or triglycerides. Results for patients randomized in early efficacy and safety studies were combined in one database and analyzed. This analysis included a total of 231 atorvastatin-treated patients (131 with hypercholesterolemia (HC), 63 with combined hyperlipidemia (CH), 36 with hypertriglyceridemia (HTG), and 1 with hyperchylomicronemia (Fredrickson Type V)). Patients were treated with a cholesterol-lowering diet (National Institutes of Health National Cholesterol Education Program Step 1 diet or a more rigorous diet) and either 2.5, 5, 10, 20, 40, or 80 mg/day of atorvastatin or placebo. Efficacy was based on percent change from baseline in total cholesterol, total triglycerides, LDL-C, very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), apolipoprotein B (apo B), and non-HDL-C/HDL-C. Safety was assessed in all randomized patients. Atorvastatin seemed to preferentially lower those lipid and lipoprotein component(s) most elevated within each dyslipidemic state: LDL-C in patients with HC, triglycerides and VLDL-C in patients with HTG, or all 3 in patients with CH. Atorvastatin was well-tolerated with a safety profile similar to other drugs in its class.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9182655
LDL-apheresis is a treatment option for patients with coronary heart disease and severe hypercholesterolemia not adequately responding to drug treatment. 34 patients (21 men, 13 women), aged 47 +/- 9 years, with coronary heart disease and heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia not adequately responsive to lipid lowering drugs received weekly (4 patients biweekly) LDL apheresis for 3.5 +/- 2.5 years, after 0.5 - 3.0 years simvastatin in the maximally tolerable dose was added. Baseline LDL cholesterol concentration under diet and lipid lowering drugs in the patients receiving immunoadsorption, dextran sulfate adsorption and HELP apheresis was 265.4 +/- 54.9, 230.8 +/- 75.8 and 253.7 +/- 55.7 mg/dl, respectively. The calculated mean LDL cholesterol concentration of the last 5 treatments of the observation period was 123.7 +/- 22.8, 126.8 +/- 26.7 and 138.8 +/- 19.7 mg/dl, respectively. The evaluation of coronary angiographies revealed a definite regression of coronary lesions in 3 patients (8.8%), in all other patients there was a stop in progression. 3 patients died of cardiac complications during the observation period. We conclude that aggressive lipid lowering with combined LDL-apheresis and drugs can stabilize coronary atherosclerosis in most patients with refractory hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9183229
To evaluate and compare the lipid-altering effects of conjugated estrogens and pravastatin, alone and in combination, in postmenopausal women with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9184704
To determine the efficacy and tolerability of the addition of low-dose niacin (1.5 g/d) in a diabetic hypercholesterolemic population who were unable to attain desired lipid control with low-dose (20 mg) pravastatin monotherapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9184709
To quantitate the therapeutic effects of alternate-day lovastatin on serum lipoprotein values in a small group of men with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9184710
To implement and evaluate pharmaceutical care services for patients with hyperlipidemias in the community pharmacy setting, to evaluate the results of a pharmaceutical care training process for pharmacists by using an assessment quiz, and to measure patient outcomes resulting from provision of pharmaceutical care to patients with hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9185636
This double-blind study to evaluate long-term efficacy and safety of atorvastatin was performed in 31 community- and university-based research centers in the USA to directly compare a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (reductase inhibitor) to an accepted drug of this class in patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia. Participants remained on a cholesterol-lowering diet throughout the study. One thousand forty-nine patients were randomized to receive atorvastatin 10 mg, lovastatin 20 mg, or placebo. At 16 weeks the placebo group was randomized to either atorvastatin or lovastatin treatment. At 22 weeks, patients who had not met low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol target levels doubled the dose of reductase inhibitor. Efficacy evaluation was mean percent change from baseline in LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, total cholesterol, high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B (apoB). Safety profiles as determined by change from baseline in laboratory evaluations, ophthalmologic parameters, and reporting of adverse events were similar for the 2 reductase inhibitors. After 52 weeks, the atorvastatin group maintained a significantly greater reduction in LDL cholesterol (-37% vs -29%), triglyceride (-16% vs -8%), total cholesterol (-27% vs -21%), and apoB (-30% vs -22%) (p <0.05). More patients receiving atorvastatin achieved LDL cholesterol target levels than did lovastatin patients (78% vs 63%, respectively), particularly those with coronary heart disease (37% vs 11%, respectively). Atorvastatin is highly effective and well tolerated in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia with no increased risk of adverse events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9185802
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9187418
Pravastatin was administered to patients suffering an acute myocardial infarction starting with a dose of 10 mg/day at day 3 and continuing with a dose of 20 mg/day up to a period of 3 months. The study was performed on the basis of a randomized placebo-controlled double-blind trial. At the dosage used pravastatin significantly lowered the total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol levels and increased the HDL-cholesterol levels compared to placebo. A prospective clinical trial in order to examine the possible clinical relevance of these findings is recommended.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9187828
This article deals with the nonpulmonary, non-infectious complications in intermediate and long-term survivors of lung transplantation. Although they are an infrequent cause of mortality, these disorders can cause significant morbidity in this population. Diseases associated with the gamut of medications used post-transplant are specifically discussed, as are diseases caused by the direct immunosuppressive action of some of these drugs. General care of transplant patients also entails attention to their underlying diseases, and to routine medical considerations common to all patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9191492
Interpretive analysis of epidemiological, clinical trials and practice pattern data for cardiovascular risk reduction in the contemporary setting of unprecedented demographic changes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9192327
Many of the uncertainties regarding the place of lipid lowering in the prevention of coronary heart disease have recently been resolved. Some of the newer findings are reviewed, and the scope for a revised clinical approach examined. The results of trials of lipid lowering, based on clinical end-points and particularly on angiographic end-points, and their meta-analyses are discussed. The close relation between coronary-angiographic and clinical outcomes is reviewed in relation to recent advances in understanding of the underlying arterial pathology, and possible underlying mechanisms are proposed. The variables predictive of progression of coronary artery disease, including nutrient intake, are examined. The management of hyperlipidaemia requires that treatment and therapeutic goals are consonant with the patient's cardiovascular risk; for this purpose, clinical and biochemical assessment of risk may be enhanced by angiographic and non-invasive methods to detect potentially-infarctogenic atherosclerotic lesions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9192484
In this review we examine the complex interactions between lipoprotein metabolism, immunosuppressive drug therapy, and inflammation and the potential benefits of lipid-lowering drug therapy after heart transplantation. The newer formulations of cyclosporine, Neoral (Novartis Pharmaceuticals; Basle, Switzerland), and other newer agents such as tacrolimus may have advantages in regard to lipid metabolism as compared with traditional triple-drug immunosuppression. Lipoprotein levels may influence both the toxicity and efficacy of cyclosporine. Dyslipidemia may adversely influence inflammation and rejection in the allograft. Two recent clinical trials have shown that lipid-lowering therapy with a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor alone or in combination with low-density lipoprotein apheresis may confer significant benefits toward preventing transplant coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9193431
Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the lipolysis of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, and the gene coding for LPL is therefore a candidate gene in atherogenesis. We previously demonstrated that two amino acid substitutions in LPL, the Asn291-Ser and the Asp9-Asn, are associated with elevated triglycerides and lower HDL cholesterol and are present with greater frequency in coronary artery disease (CAD) patients than in normolipidemic control subjects. Conversely, a third frequent mutation in this gene, the Ser447-Stop, is reported by some investigators to underlie higher HDL cholesterol levels and would represent a beneficial genetic variant in lipoprotein metabolism. We therefore sought conclusive evidence for these allegations by investigating the effects of the LPL Ser447-Stop mutation on LPL and hepatic lipase (HL) activity, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides in a large group of CAD patients (n = 820) with normal to mildly elevated total and LDL cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9195116
Fosinopril is a phosphorus-containing ester prodrug of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. It is hydrolysed mainly in the gastrointestinal mucosa and liver to the active diacid, fosinoprilat, which has unique pharmacological properties. The majority of the active moieties of other ACE inhibitors are excreted in the urine. This means that an adjustment in either the dosage and/or the administration interval is needed in patients with moderate to severe renal dysfunction, in order to reduce drug accumulation and the possibility of an excessive decrease in blood pressure or other adverse effects. On the other hand, fosinoprilat is excreted both in urine and bile (as with temocaprilat, zofenoprilat and spiraprilat), and thus an adjustment of dosage and/or administration interval may be unnecessary in patients with moderate to severe renal dysfunction, as impaired renal function influences little of the pharmacokinetics of fosinoprilat. Furthermore, the available evidence suggests that the pharmacokinetic variables of fosinoprilat in patients receiving haemodialysis were similar to those in patients with moderate to severe renal dysfunction. Dosage modifications or supplemental dose administration following dialysis may be unnecessary. The hypotensive effect of the combination of fosinopril and a diuretic is synergistic. Pharmacokinetic interactions with fosinopril are unlikely in patients receiving thiazide or loop diuretics. Fosinopril has beneficial effects for patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy because it produces an adequate reduction in blood pressure and reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy. There are a large number of studies of the pharmacokinetics of fosinopril. However studies of its pharmacokinetic drug interactions with other drugs are far fewer. Further investigations are needed in several clinical settings.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9195119
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9199267
The objectives of the present study were to characterize the surface expression of low density lipoprotein receptor (LDL-R) in Epstein-Barr virus transformed lymphocytes (EBV-L) and to determine the applicability of the cellular system for the study of familial hypercholesterolemia. The EBV-L subsets and LDL-R expression were determined by immuno-cytofluorimetry. The LDL-R expression in EBV-L which consisted of mostly B cells was no different among antigenic subsets. EBV-L cultured in lipoprotein deficient serum demonstrated a 9.3-fold higher LDL-R expression than primary lymphocytes. Lovastatin caused an additional 1.9-and 1.4-fold increase in EBV-L and primary lymphocytes respectively. This difference in lovastatin response is statistically significant (paired t-test, P < 0.001). 54% of the high LDL-R expression in EBV-L was related to the changes in proliferation measured as stimulation index (SI). LDL and lovastatin modulated the LDL-R expression without affecting SI. FH subjects demonstrated 2% (homozygote, n = 1) and 44.6 +/- 12.3% (heterozygotes, n = 35) in LDL-R expression of controls (n = 30). This maintenance of the FH phenotype and the intrinsically high LDL-R expression in EBV-L make the cellular system suitable for the study of FH as well as the regulation of LDL-R.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9199281
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9201001
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9201004
Epidemiologic evidence and meta-analyses of data from early clinical trials suggest that lowering the levels of cholesterol does not reduce the events of stroke. These analyses have not included more recent clinical trials using reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9202359
Three recent large clinical trials-the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study, the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study, and the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events Trial-have all confirmed that cholesterol lowering with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is safe and effective therapy to prevent an initial or recurrent coronary event in patients at high risk for coronary heart disease. However, a number of questions related to the treatment of lipid disorders and risk reduction for coronary heart disease remain, including the cholesterol concentration at which treatment would best be initiated, the optimal cholesterol reduction or goal to be attained, and the mechanisms by which HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors reduce the risk for clinical events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9202362
Serial intravascular ultrasound studies were performed to evaluate the effect of pravastatin on coronary atherosclerotic plaque. Administration of pravastatin reduced serum lipid levels and progression of coronary artery atherosclerotic plaque.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9205017
We directly compared the safety and efficacy of atorvastatin and simvastatin in hypercholesterolemic patients. This 1-year, randomized, double-blind study was performed at 9 community- and university-based research hospitals in Australia. One-hundred seventy-seven patients between the ages of 18 and 80 years with baseline low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol > or = 4.14 and < or = 7.76 mmol/L (160 and 300 mg/dl, respectively) and triglycerides < or = 4.52 mmol/L (400 mg/dl) received once-daily dosing with atorvastatin (Lipitor) 10 mg or simvastatin (Zocor) 10 mg. At week 16, the dose of medication was titrated to atorvastatin 20 mg or simvastatin 20 mg if patients did not meet LDL cholesterol target of < or = 3.36 mmol/L (130 mg/dl). Efficacy was reported as percent change from baseline in LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol, total triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoproteins AI and B, and lipoprotein(a). Atorvastatin caused significantly greater reductions from baseline than did simvastatin for LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and apolipoprotein B (p <0.05). No patient in either treatment group had clinically important elevations in creatine phosphokinase, alanine aminotransaminase, or aspartate aminotransaminase. No serious adverse events were considered associated with treatment. With atorvastatin 10 mg, 46% of the patients achieved LDL cholesterol target goal by week 16, whereas only 27% of the simvastatin patients achieved the target goal at the 10-mg dose. This cholesterol-lowering profile affords utility in many patient types.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9205026
The effect of fluvastatin on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle diameter was investigated in 42 hypercholesterolemic patients. Fluvastatin reduced LDL cholesterol significantly but had no effect on LDL particle diameter; it also had no differential effect on patients classified as LDL pattern A (large LDL), pattern B (small LDL), or I (intermediate LDL).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9205036
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9205850
Cardiovascular disease has been inseparable from aging in developed societies and, as a result, it is the commonest cause of mortality in elderly populations. Atherosclerosis is associated with the progressive vascular accumulation of cholesterol-laden lipoproteins, and is linearly associated with the plasma level of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Clinical trials in patients aged < 65 years have conclusively shown that treatment of hypercholesterolaemia decreases the incidence of cardiovascular events and total mortality. However, few conclusive data are available regarding the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia in elderly patients. Extrapolation from clinical trials suggests that lipid lowering treatment in well selected elderly patients is effective in preventing cardiovascular events and is an efficient use of healthcare resources. In addition to cholesterol, high triglyceride and low high-density lipoprotein levels appear to be significant predictors of coronary artery disease in elderly patients. We do not advocate the indiscriminate screening of healthy elderly patients who have no other cardiovascular risk factors, because the marginal overall benefits are probably small and the costs of widespread screening and treatment high. On the other hand, chronological age itself cannot be considered a barrier to the screening and treatment of patients who have a good quality of life but have other cardiovascular risk factors and/or definite cardiovascular disease. Subgroup analysis of major clinical trials suggests that the aims of treatment should be to lower the LDL cholesterol level to 3.2 mmol/L (125 mg/dl), or the total cholesterol level to 5.2 mmol/L (200 mg/dl). Occasionally, multiple drug therapy is required to achieve this target, but statins (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors) are the most commonly used first-line agents. With aggressive lowering of plasma lipid levels in this way, a reduction in clinical events is paralleled by regression of atheroma detectable by angiography, and an improvement in endothelial function. Global reduction of risk factors in elderly patients should always be undertaken, including dietary therapy, weight reduction in viscerally obese patients, postmenopausal estrogen replacement, smoking cessation, treatment of hypertension and control of diabetes mellitus. A secondary cause of dyslipidaemia should also be sought. The role of antioxidants is still not clear, but they are probably of little benefit in elderly patients. With the widespread use of effective, well tolerated treatments for lipid disorders in younger patients, significant improvements have already been attained in the morbidity and mortality associated with coronary artery disease. Since the current life expectancy at age 65 years is nearly 20 years in most Western countries, secondary prevention may increase the quality of life and the independent lifespan, even if eventual mortality is not delayed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9207626
We evaluated coagulability as determined by platelet-dependent thrombin generation in hypercholesterolemic patients before and after treatment with pravastatin and in hypertriglyceridemic patients to investigate the usefulness of coagulability as an index of atherosclerosis and to determine the importance of treating hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9208077
The screening for and treatment of hypercholesterolaemia is still a complex and controversial issue. As hypercholesterolaemia is a major risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD), there was initially much enthusiasm for mass screening with intervention recommended for persons with serum cholesterol levels > or = 6.5 mmol/L. However, trials of treatment of hypercholesterolaemia using lipid lowering drugs showed overall benefit (i.e. reduced all-cause mortality) only for persons with pre-existing CHD (secondary prevention) or other major risk factors. For this and other reasons (e.g. cost effectiveness) screening for hypercholesterolaemia has been recommended for persons with CHD or major risk factors (family history of premature coronary heart disease, cigarette smoking, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus). Recent trials with statins have shown greater benefit than with other lipid lowering drugs, confirming the benefits of secondary prevention. In addition, one trial has shown overall benefit after 5 years for middle-aged hypercholesterolaemic males without a previous myocardial infarction, raising the possibility of mass screening. However, longer follow-up of a number of trials of primary prevention including on persons without risk factors together with a full assessment of the local situation with regards to hypercholesterolaemia is needed before mass screening can be recommended.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9208356
To evaluate the short-term safety and efficacy of low-dose (10 mg) simvastatin in hypercholesterolemic, hypertensive elderly Chinese patients receiving antihypertensive treatment, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-month trial was conducted. The patients had a total plasma cholesterol level of at least 250 mg/dL and had been, for at least 3 months, consuming a standard lipid-lowering diet (American Heart Association Step 1 Diet). Elderly hypertensive patients (n = 76) were randomized to receive treatment with either placebo (n = 38) or simvastatin (n = 38). The dosage consisted of 10 mg simvastatin daily during the 3-month trial. During that period, in the simvastatin group, plasma levels of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol decreased significantly (27% and 33%, respectively) compared with those levels in plasma in the placebo group. The plasma levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol increased (7%), whereas triglyceride levels slightly decreased (8%). There were no serious side effects, and simvastatin was generally well tolerated. Fasting hyperinsulinemia also improved (-21%) after 3 months of simvastatin therapy. Results of this study confirmed that a low dose (10 mg) of simvastatin daily is a safe and effective method of reducing plasma levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in hypercholesterolemic, hypertensive elderly patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive drug therapy, and that it has the additional potential benefit of reducing plasma levels of insulin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9215232
In the treatment of coronary atherosclerotic artery disease (CAD), the mechanisms by which lipid lowering, a proven therapy, produces beneficial clinical effects remain unclear. Moreover, although potential mechanisms of benefit are well known and increasingly applied clinically, there are no conclusive data from clinical trials studying primarily the antiischemic effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition in patients with normal heart function. The Simvastatin/Enalapril Coronary Atherosclerosis Trial (SCAT) is designed to clarify some of these issues in CAD patients with normal or mildly elevated cholesterol. DESIGN AND OBJECTIVES: SCAT is a three- to five-year, multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, 2 x 2 factorial trial evaluating the effects of cholesterol lowering therapy by simvastatin and/or ACE inhibition by enalapril on anatomic coronary atherosclerosis progression assessed by quantitative coronary angiography in CAD patients with preserved left ventricular function and total cholesterol levels between 4.1 and 6.2 mmol/L.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9217621
To evaluate the efficacy of lovastatin in African Americans (AA) diagnosed with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9217673
Randomized clinical trials demonstrate the efficacy of medical secondary prevention in coronary disease patients. The magnitude of risk reduction with exercise, diet, lipid modification, and smoking cessation is similar to other medical therapies for coronary disease such as aspirin, beta blockers, as well as coronary bypass surgery, (Table VI) In contrast to these therapies, however, secondary prevention stabilizes angiographic progression in about 50% of patients and induces regression in about 25% of patients. Both symptoms and perceived quality of life also are beneficially altered by secondary prevention programs, although possibly not by the magnitude reported for bypass surgery. These clinical trial results have led the American Heart Association, and the American College of Cardiology to strongly endorse secondary prevention. A reasonable projection based on these clinical trial data is that widespread use of these recommendations in the 12 million established coronary disease patients would significantly reduce coronary mortality and morbidity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9220213
The aim of this study was to investigate the safety and long-term effects on serum lipid levels of low-dose simvastatin, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, in Japanese patients with moderate primary hypercholesterolemia. We assigned 201 patients (68 men and 133 women; mean +/- SD age, 61.3 +/- 10.2 years) with serum total cholesterol levels > or = 220 mg/dL to receive simvastatin 5 mg each evening; the treatment period was 1 year. Serum total cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels decreased significantly in response to simvastatin therapy, and the changes were maintained throughout the treatment period. Mean total cholesterol decreased from 269.9 +/- 35.4 mg/dL to 215.2 +/- 34.5 mg/dL (20.3%), triglycerides decreased from 183.0 +/- 110.2 mg/dL to 155.5 +/- 88.5 mg/dL (15.0%), and LDL cholesterol decreased from 180.0 +/- 33.1 mg/dL to 130.1 +/- 35.1 mg/dL (27.7%). Total cholesterol, triglycerides, and LDL cholesterol tended to decline when the pretreatment values were higher; the critical values and the bidirectional changes of the serum lipid levels were 188.1, 109.5, and 91.6 mg/dL, respectively. Although the serum level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol did not change significantly, it tended to increase more when the pretreatment values were lower; the "critical value" was 70 mg/dL. Nine patients experienced mild adverse events, but none discontinued simvastatin during the 12-month treatment period. We found that low-dose simvastatin therapy is effective in achieving long-term decreases in serum lipid levels and is well tolerated by patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia. Simvastatin therapy may result in normalization of serum lipid levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9220221
From January 1994 through May 1995, Prudential HealthCare-North Texas prospectively studied 299 member patients diagnosed with hypercholesterolemia for whom pharmacotherapy with one of four 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, also known as statins, was prescribed. The purpose of this study was to measure the relative cost-effectiveness (CE) of these drugs in a real-world setting. This study provides information to assist decision makers in managed-care organizations (MCO) in making formulary selections. The study used a prospective, randomized, balanced cohort design, examining patients who had been prescribed initial therapy with a statin drug as monotherapy. Costs (direct medical and indirect costs) and effectiveness (percent reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels) were based on approximately the first 6 months of initial therapy. Both the MCO and patient perspectives were considered. In the base case, mean CE ratios were significantly lower for fluvastatin compared with lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin from both the managed-care perspective and the patient perspective. Sensitivity analysis did not alter the CE conclusions, even under conditions of varying cost structures. Although differences were found in the effectiveness of lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin measured in this study versus efficacy measured for these drugs in controlled clinical trials, sensitivity analysis suggests that these differences alone do not determine the superior CE of fluvastatin. Finally, this study supports the idea that well-designed formularies should consider drug CE (based on safety, effectiveness, and cost) and that integration of the pharmacy benefit management with other medical management is essential. These results provide evidence that fluvastatin may represent a more cost-effective formulary choice among statin products used for initial monotherapy of hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9222121
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9223386
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9223394
Fibrates and HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are commonly used in the treatment of diabetic dyslipidaemia. However, these two groups of drugs have not been compared in diabetic patients in a randomized controlled trial. Therefore, a multicentre study was performed in 73 subjects with non-insulin-dependent (Type 2) diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and combined hyperlipidaemia (serum cholesterol 6.2-10.0 mmol l(-1), serum triglycerides 2.3-10.0 mmol l(-1)), comparing the efficacy of 400 mg bezafibrate with 10 mg simvastatin in a double-blind fashion. Treatment with bezafibrate during 12 weeks reduced serum triglycerides significantly more than simvastatin (-41% vs -22%, p < 0.001) and increased HDL cholesterol more (bezafibrate: + 17% vs simvastatin: + 9%, p < 0.05). LDL cholesterol levels decreased by 14% (p < 0.001) during simvastatin and increased by 21% (p < 0.01) during bezafibrate. This increase in LDL cholesterol was positively correlated with fasting serum triglycerides (p < 0.001) and was associated with a reduction of the serum apolipoprotein B concentration, suggesting an increase in LDL particle size. Metabolic control of diabetes (fasting glycaemia; HbA1c) and insulin secretion (C-peptide levels) were unaffected by both treatments. The incidence of side-effects during treatment was similar for both drugs. Thus, 400 mg bezafibrate mainly increases HDL cholesterol and lowers serum triglycerides but at the expense of an increase in LDL cholesterol; 10 mg simvastatin lowers LDL cholesterin more effectively but has a smaller effect on HDL cholesterol and triglycerides.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9223762
The Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft trial is an important milestone that documents the benefits of treating hypercholesterolemia in patients with severe coronary atherosclerosis who have had bypass surgery. In the present article, we highlight the rationale, study design, and results of the Post-CABG study, which was recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9226599
Sexual difficulties are highly prevalent in male patients with cardiovascular diseases, such as hypertension, atherosclerosis, and hypercholesterolemia. Recently, several studies have been conducted on the effects of cardiovascular diseases, as well as associated drug and nondrug treatments, on nocturnal penile tumescence (NPT) and other measures of sexual function. Although an overall trend has been observed toward decreased NPT in patients with chronic hypertension and other cardiovascular conditions, design and methodological difficulties have been noted in most studies, and results have been generally, inconclusive. Similarly, antihypertensive drugs such as beta-blockers and diuretics have been associated with diminished NPT in several studies, although methodological problems have again been noted. Furthermore, the mechanism of action of antihypertensive drugs on sleep-related erections has not been determined. Most recently, a positive effect of cholesterol-lowering drugs (pravastatin, lovastatin) on NPT has been observed in middle-aged males with chronic hypercholesterolemia. Additional studies of the effects of cardiovascular disease on NPT and other measures of sexual function are needed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9227708
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9228438
To examine whether cholesterol lowering with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statin drugs) reduces the risks of stroke and total mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9229398
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9229399
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9229400
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9229401
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9229402
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9229403
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9230143
The efficacy, safety, and tolerability of a moderate dose, 3-drug lipid-lowering regimen were evaluated among 29 male patients with hyperlipidemia and coronary artery disease. In an initial 12-month phase, regular niacin, 500 mg qid, lovastatin, 20 mg bid, and colestipol, 10 g/bid, were given with dose adjustment for lipid targets and side effects. This was followed by 2 random sequence crossover phases (8 months each) alternating regular niacin with a polygel controlled-release formulation of niacin for use in this regimen. Lipid, lipoprotein, apoprotein, and clinical chemistry determinations were obtained at baseline, during the initial phase, at the 2 crossover phases, and at 6 weeks after therapy. A final questionnaire queried specific side effects and overall preferences. Low-/high-density lipoprotein (LDL/HDL) changed from means of 215/46 mg/dl at baseline, to 94/59 mg/dl after run-in, to 85/52 mg/dl after 8 months of controlled-release niacin, and to 98/56 mg/dl after 8 months of regular niacin (regular niacin vs controlled-release niacin, p <0.005/<0.05). The target of LDL < or = 100 mg/dl was achieved at 8 months by 83% of these patients with controlled-release niacin and by 52% with regular niacin (p <0.01). Compliance was 95% with controlled-release niacin versus 85% with regular niacin (p <0.001). The controlled-release niacin and regular niacin regimens did not differ in terms of uric acid, glucose, insulin, or asparate aminotransferase levels. Overall, 21% of patients called the 3 drugs "very easy" and 72% "fairly easy" to take. The controlled-release niacin-containing regimen was preferred by 21 patients and the regular niacin by 4. In conclusion, these regimens achieve striking lipid changes among hyperlipidemic patients. Controlled release is the preferred niacin preparation in terms of LDL reduction, compliance, patient preference, and achieving the National Cholesterol Education Program guideline of LDL < or = 100 mg/dl. The 2 niacin preparations did not differ in evidence of toxicity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9237640
A double-blinded, placebo-controlled cross-over trial was carried out with 27 hypercholesterolemic men with coronary heart disease. During the 6-week treatment period lovastatin (60 mg/day) decreased fasting serum LDL cholesterol by 45%, LDL phosphorus by 38% and apoB by 33%. Ubiquinol content diminished by 13% as measured per LDL phosphorus. When LDL was oxidized ex vivo with AMVN both LDL ubiquinol and alpha-tocopherol were exhausted faster after lovastatin treatment compared to placebo, by 24% (P < 0.005) and 36% (P < 0.0001), respectively. Lag time in copper-induced oxidation of LDL decreased by 7% (P < 0.01). This suggests diminished antioxidant-dependent resistance of LDL to the early phase of oxidative stress.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9241092
The study investigated the mechanism of the interaction between valproate and carbamazepine which causes raised plasma carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide concentrations with unchanged plasma carbamazepine concentrations. This interaction has usually been attributed to valproate inhibiting epoxide hydrolase, the enzyme that catalyses the biotransformation of carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide to carbamazepine-10,11-trans-diol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9241100
High plasma cholesterol concentration and increased platelet activity are two major risk factors for atherosclerosis. Lovastatin, the lipophilic drug was shown to inhibit platelet aggregation whereas pravastatin, the hydrophilic drug had no such effect. Analysis of the effect of fluvastatin which is both a lipophilic and hydrophilic drug, on platelet aggregation was the goal of the present study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9241623
A randomised trial of simvastatin and enalapril in patients with chronic renal failure on dialysis: effects on serum lipoprotein concentrations and left ventricular mass. Left ventricular hypertrophy and abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism are both possible contributors to the high risk of cardiovascular death in patients with chronic renal failure on dialysis. We investigated the effects of simvastatin on lipid and lipoprotein concentrations and the effects of enalapril on left ventricular mass in 107 patients receiving haemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Patients were randomised in a factorial design to receive simvastatin (10 mg daily) or placebo and enalapril (2.5-5 mg daily) or placebo. During follow-up, there was a significant excess of patients withdrawn from enalapril because of hypotension (2p = 0.002), and after 6 months only 55% of those assigned enalapril were still on treatment. From baseline to 6 months, there were no statistically significant differences in left ventricular mass or left ventricular dimensions between patients assigned enalapril and those assigned placebo. Among the patients assigned simvastatin, total cholesterol was reduced by 13% (2p = 0.001), LDL cholesterol was reduced by 17% (2p = 0.003) and apolipoprotein B was reduced by 12% (2p = 0.005) compared to patients assigned placebo. There were borderline significant (2p = 0.05 to 0.08) reductions in VLDL cholesterol, total triglyceride and VLDL triglycerides of 26%, 12% and 17% respectively. Large-scale trials are now required to determine whether reductions in lipid and lipoprotein concentrations confer a reduction in coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in patients on dialysis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9243155
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9244193
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9244208
Lipid-lowering therapy during 2 years in the Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS) was associated with less progression of coronary atherosclerosis in the pravastatin group compared with the placebo group. The effect of lipid-lowering therapy on the functional state of the coronary circulation is less well known. The purpose of this study was to evaluate this effect.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9252790
We report on 2 children, brother and sister, who presented with cardiomyopathy and muscular hypotonia at the age of B months. They both excreted significant amounts of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric acid (3-HMG) and 3-methylglutaconic acid (3-MGC) but no 3-methylglutaric acid (3-MG). Enzyme analysis in fibroblasts revealed normal activities of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) lyase and of 3-methylglutaconyl hydratase and other enzymes of 3-HMG metabolism. Loading tests with leucine did not affect the excretion of 3-HMG and 3-MGC. The girl died as a result of her cardiomyopathy, while the boy recovered and was treated with cardiac supportive therapy. He showed a steady improvement during his clinical course with biochemical normalization of the urinary excretion of 3-HMG, concomitant with marked improvement in the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In cultured fibroblasts from both patients a reduced activity of complex II/III of the respiratory chain was measured which may be the cause of this new type of 3-HMG uria. Analysis of mitochondrial DNA heart muscle, liver and fibroblast culture of the patient did not reveal any major mitochondrial DNA rearrangements (deletion, duplication) or any point mutation that had been described in association with mitochondrial cardiomyopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9253390
To determine eligibility for a (randomized) clinical trial, measuring the inclusion and exclusion criteria can be extended over a period of time. During this period, known as the selection period, a patient is repeatedly examined at certain time intervals. This study describes an approach for optimizing the efficiency of the selection period. Efficiency is defined as the costs of randomizing one patient. The objective is to construct prediction models based on data obtained early in the selection period to predict subsequent exclusions. A prediction model increases the efficiency if after its application the costs per randomization are lower. The approach is illustrated using data from the selection period of the Rotterdam Cardiovascular Risk Intervention (ROCARI) trial which was composed of five consecutive patient visits. At each visit, data to determine eligibility was obtained. We found that logistic regression models based on data of the first and second visit could predict exclusions during the third visit. Application of the prediction models suggested that in this particular trial the costs per randomization would decrease by $52. As the initial costs per randomization were $1444, there would be a 3.6% (52/1444) savings in recruitment costs under the prediction models, accounting for a savings of more than $450,000. We conclude that the use of data obtained early in a selection period can predict subsequent exclusions, and therefore could increase the efficiency of such a period. The approach could be applied to data obtained in a pilot study as well as data obtained in the beginning of a prolonged intake period.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9253540
The menopause and its biology are as yet still incompletely understood. Very little is known about biological and molecular changes in cardiovascular target tissues and organs after menopause. Experimental and clinical evidence indicate that prevention of cardiovascular disease by estrogens is aimed both at the correction of risk factors and at the direct control of vessel structure and function. The effects of progestogens on these processes are still debated. Few other medical interventions have as great a potential for affecting morbidity and mortality as does hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women. Hormone replacement therapy has produced effects on health risk, some are reduced, some are raised, while some remain uncertain, suggesting that further testing through specific clinical trials are required before confident recommendations can be made about the full range of benefits and risks. Lipid lowering therapy may be an acceptable alternative for postmenopausal women at risk for cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9254045
One or more mevalonate derivatives of non-sterol type have been proposed to be of indispensable importance for cell growth. Conceivable mevalonate-dependent mechanisms involved in growth control are farnesylation of Ras proteins, regulation of c-myc expression, and N-linked glycosylation of the IGF-1 receptor. The latter mechanism might be rate-limited by dolichyl phosphate, which acts as a donor of oligosaccharides in glycoprotein synthesis in the endoplasmic reticulum. In order to study the significance for cell proliferation of the three aforementioned mevalonate-dependent processings, their inhibitory response due to mevalonate deprivation was explored and compared with the effect on DNA synthesis in the malignant melanoma cell line SK-MEL-2. We found that mevalonate depletion due to treatment with 3 microM lovastatin for 24 h, which efficiently growth-arrested the cells, hardly at all affected the expression of c-myc, and although Ras prenylation was inhibited by 50%, the most pronounced effect of lovastatin was seen on N-linked glycosylation of IGF-1 receptors, which was inhibited by more than 95%. The order and magnitude of the decreased IGF-1 receptor glycosylation, which was followed by a decreased expression of IGF-1 receptors at the cell membrane, correlated well with the inhibition of DNA synthesis. We investigated whether dolichol, and in particular dolichyl phosphate, through its participation in N-linked glycosylation, act as regulators of IGF-1 receptor expression. First, we could confirm that exogenous dolichol became phosphorylated and in this form took part in the glycosylation processing. Secondly, we showed that dolichyl phosphate, in a dose-dependent manner, could increase the number of IGF-1 receptors at the cell membrane, simultaneously as DNA synthesis was stimulated. Taken together, our results provide direct evidence for an important role of dolichyl phosphate as a regulator of cell growth through limiting N-linked glycosylation of the IGF-1 receptor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9254075
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors or statins are effective in both the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, the extent of benefit being proportional to the reduction in low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol achieved. Atorvastatin, a newly licensed compound, reportedly lowers LDL with greater efficacy than other statins. The mechanism of this action was, therefore, explored in twenty patients with refractory familial hypercholesterolemia who received in a single-blind sequence simvastatin 40 mg/day, placebo and atorvastatin 10 mg/day each for 4 weeks. At the end of the placebo period the effects of single 40-mg doses of simvastatin and atorvastatin on plasma levels and urinary excretion of mevalonic acid, indices of HMG-CoA reductase activity, were compared. Administration of atorvastatin 10 mg daily for 1 month lowered LDL cholesterol by 32.5%, compared with placebo (P = 0.0001), which was 4.5% less than the decrease after simvastatin 40 mg daily (P = 0.33). The area under the plasma curve and urinary mevalonic acid/ creatinine ratio were both significantly less during the 24 h after a single dose of atorvastatin 40 mg than after a single dose of simvastatin 40 mg (P < 0.01). These findings suggest that the greater efficacy of atorvastatin compared with simvastatin is due to more prolonged inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase, presumably reflecting longer residence of atorvastatin or its active metabolites in the liver.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9257049
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9257052
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9257071
In the Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (POST CABG) clinical trial, the primary outcome is substantial worsening (i.e., narrowing of the lumen diameter) of the vein grafts upon comparison of the baseline and follow-up angiograms. The patients had one to five non-occluded vein grafts at entry, so there may be from one to five primary outcome responses per patient. A modified ratio estimate (MRE) statistic, as described previously by Zucker and Wittes, may be used to analyze data of this kind. In the present paper we propose a more powerful MRE statistic when the event rates and/ or intraclass correlations vary according to number of grafts per patient. We also adapt this statistic to the factorial treatment design of the POST CABG clinical trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9257079
Hypertension and diabetes mellitus are common chronic conditions which frequently coexist. Diabetic nephropathy is a major cause of elevated blood pressure in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). Diabetic nephropathy, arterial sclerosis, obesity and association of essential hypertension can be the causes of hypertension in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring has revealed that the nocturnal fall of blood pressure is blunted in patients with diabetic nephropathy. A blunted diurnal blood pressure variation is seen in microalbuminuric diabetic patients and even in some normoalbuminuric patients. Accumulating data suggest that normalisation of blood pressure in hypertensive IDDM patients is most important to minimise the loss of kidney function. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been reported to be effective in postponing the development of nephropathy and in slowing its progression. Whether only ACE inhibitors have such beneficial renal effects on diabetic nephropathy is under discussion. While many studies have suggested that insulin resistance and hyperinsulinaemia are related to an elevated blood pressure in hypertensive patients, there does not seem to be enough evidence to prove that insulin per se can raise blood pressure in humans. Neither an insulin infusion within a physiological range nor sustained hyperinsulinaemia and insulin resistance (e.g. patients with insulinoma, cystic ovary syndrome) have been associated with an elevated blood pressure. Insulin resistance in some hypertensive patients may be a consequence of a decreased blood flow due to an increased peripheral resistance. Preliminary evidence suggests that low birth weight or impaired fetal growth is related to hypertension and NIDDM. Familial clustering of diabetic nephropathy suggests the contribution of genetic susceptibility and/or environmental inheritance. The frequent association of nephropathy with hypertension has led to research on the genes related to hypertension (ACE, angiotensinogen). Nevertheless, to date no reliable and clinically useful genetic marker has been found. Attempts to correct the metabolic abnormalities derived from diabetes are a new topic in the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. The effects of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (antihypercholesterolaemic drugs), aldose reductase inhibitors (inhibitors of the polyol pathway) and glycation inhibitors (inhibitors of formation of advanced glycosylation end-products) on diabetic nephropathy have been evaluated in animal studies and in some clinical trials. Thus far, results with HMG CoA reductase and aldose reductase inhibitors have been somewhat conflicting. The potential therapeutic role of glycation inhibition in the treatment of diabetes deserves further study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9258416
The effects of atorvastatin (lipitor) on cholesterol-rich and triglyceride-rich lipoproteins were evaluated in this multicenter trial. Following a 6-week baseline period, 47 patients with elevated cholesterol and triglyceride levels were treated with atorvastatin 10 mg once daily (QD) for the initial 12 weeks (Period 1) increasing to 20 mg QD for the following 12 weeks (Period 2). At both the 10 and 20 mg doses, atorvastatin treatment resulted in significant reductions compared to pretreatment levels in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), total cholesterol (TC), very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C), apolipoprotein (apo) B, apoB in LDL (LDL-apo B), apo B in VLDL (VLDL-apo B), lipoprotein (Lp)B, lipoprotein B-complex (LpBc), triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoprotein triglycerides (LDL-TG), very low-density lipoprotein triglyceride (VLDL-TG), high-density lipoprotein triglycerides (HDL-TG), and apo C-III. Atorvastatin 10 and 20 mg QD also resulted in significant increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), apo AI, and LpAII:B:C:D:E. Due to its unique ability to normalize both cholesterol-rich and triglyceride-rich particles, atorvastatin is a promising candidate for monotherapy in a broad range of patients including those with varying degrees of hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9260485
Ketoconazole is an imidazole derivative that is active as a broad-spectrum antifungal agent. It is also an inhibitor of cholesterol production both in vivo and in vitro.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9263665
The highlights of each generation of hypertension trials have been varied, but interrelated. The initial hypertension trials focused on middle-aged hypertensive individuals and later on the elderly, with emphasis on diastolic blood pressure and subsequently on systolic blood pressure. Past generations of trials elucidated whether and whom to treat. The current explosion of morbidity and mortality trials in hypertension largely seeks to learn what drugs should be used and to delineate what blood pressure goals should be targeted.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9264419
Despite the potential for reduced morbidity and mortality, aggressive intervention against mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) remains controversial and infrequently practiced. Eligible patients in the 2.5-year Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study were men and women aged 35 to 75 years with angiographic CHD and mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol of 115 to 190 mg/dl despite diet. Patients (n = 429; 19% women) were randomized to fluvastatin 20 mg twice daily or placebo. One fourth of patients were also assigned open-label adjunctive cholestyramine up to 12 g/day because prerandomization LDL cholesterol remained > or = 160 mg/dl. The primary end point, assessed by quantitative coronary angiography, was within-patient per-lesion change in minimum lumen diameter (MLD) of qualifying lesions. Across 2.5 years, mean LDL cholesterol was reduced by 23.9% in all fluvastatin patients (+/- cholestyramine) (146 to 111 mg/dl) and by 22.5% in the fluvastatin only subgroup (137 to 106 mg/dl). Primary end point analysis (340 patients) showed significantly less lesion progression in all fluvastatin versus all placebo patients, deltaMLD -0.028 versus -0.100 mm (p <0.01), and for fluvastatin alone versus placebo alone, deltaMLD -0.024 versus -0.094 mm (p <0.02). A consistent angiographic benefit with treatment was seen whether baseline LDL cholesterol was above or below 160 or 130 mg/dl. Beneficial trends with treatment were also consistently seen in clinical event rates but were not statistically significant. Thus, lipid lowering by fluvastatin in patients with mildly to moderately elevated LDL cholesterol significantly slowed CHD progression.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9264420
The Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study (AFCAPS/TexCAPS) is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled primary prevention trial. It is designed to test the hypothesis that in addition to a lipid-lowering diet, treatment with lovastatin is more effective than placebo in reducing acute major coronary events (i.e., sudden cardiac death, fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction, and unstable angina) in a cohort with normal to mildly elevated total (180 to 264 mg/dl) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (130 to 190 mg/dl) and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (< or =45 mg/dl for men and < or =47 mg/dl for women). Two sites in Texas, Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio and the University of North Texas Health Science Center in Fort Worth, will conduct the study. After at least 12 weeks of an American Heart Association Step 1 diet and 2 weeks placebo run-in, 6,605 men and women, ages 45 to 73 and 55 to 73 years, respectively, without clinical evidence of coronary heart disease, are randomized in equal numbers to either lovastatin (20 mg/day) or placebo. Study procedures maintain the blind, allowing titration of lovastatin from 20 to 40 mg/day to achieve an LDL cholesterol goal of < or = 110 mg/dl. All participants are followed until study completion, when 320 participants have had a primary end point or a minimum of 5 years after the last participant is randomized, whichever occurs last. All end points are adjudicated by an independent committee using prespecified criteria. Unique features of this trial are (1) the inclusion of unstable angina in the primary end point to reflect the increasing trend to treat coronary heart disease aggressively before a myocardial infarction has occurred, (2) aggressive pharmacologic intervention, with titration, to attain an LDL cholesterol goal less than the current National Cholesterol Education Panel guidelines for primary prevention, and (3) a cohort that includes women, the elderly, and those with mild to moderate hyperlipidemia and low HDL cholesterol. Compared with earlier studies, results will be applicable to a broader population and may help clarify the role of aggressive LDL cholesterol reduction measures in primary prevention. Treatment of this population is likely to realize the greatest cumulative long-term benefit in the prevention of acute major coronary events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9264433
Atorvastatin is a highly efficacious hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor that has been shown to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 40% to 60%. Monotherapy with atorvastatin (10 to 80 mg/day) is well-tolerated, convenient, and appears to be effective for achieving National Cholesterol Education Program treatment goals in most patients, regardless of risk status.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9264434
This study evaluated changes in serum lipids when fluvastatin was substituted for lovastatin using equivalent doses. Results showed that serum lipids, especially low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, significantly increase with this substitution.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9265282
In the recently published CARE-study, 4,159 patients aged 21-75 years were included and randomised to treatment with pravastatin 40 mg once daily or placebo 3-20 months following a myocardial infarction. Inclusion criteria were a total cholesterol < 6.2 mmol/l and LDL-cholesterol 3.0-4.5 mmol/l. Mean follow-up time was five years. Average reduction of total cholesterol was 20% and of LDL-cholesterol 28% in the treatment group. The incidence of coronary death or non-fatal myocardial infarction was reduced by 24% (p = 0.003). The cholesterol levels in the CARE-study were similar to those in most western populations and lower than in the 4S study. This must be considered when evaluating the different results of the treatment in the two studies. It seems fair not only to offer statin treatment to patients complying with the 4S inclusion criteria, but also to patients with values as in the CARE population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9268234
The effects of simvastatin and pravastatin administered alone at initial doses of 5 and 10 mg/day, respectively, on normalization of abnormal lipid metabolism in patients with hypercholesterolemia were evaluated by a crossover method. Patients whose serum levels of total cholesterol (TC) were > or = 220 mg/dl were randomly divided into two groups, and one of the groups (group S-P: 17 patients) was treated with simvastatin first and then with pravastatin whereas the other group (group P-S: 19 patients) was treated with pravastatin first and then with simvastatin. Simvastatin or pravastatin was replaced with the other drug after 8-week administration in each group. These drugs were administered for 8 weeks each. Simvastatin and pravastatin significantly reduced the following serum lipids as compared with the levels in the observation period: TC by 23.2 +/- 8.1% and 18.1 +/- 10.9%, triglyceride (TG) by 13.0 +/- 24.7% and 5.8 +/- 47.1%, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by 31.3 +/- 10.1% and 23.1 +/- 14.3%, respectively. TC and LDL-C levels were significantly (p < 0.001) lower and decreased to significantly (p < 0.001) greater degrees after simvastatin treatment than after pravastatin treatment. TC was normalized in 77.8% of the patients (28 of 36) after simvastatin treatment and in 68.9% of the patients (23 of 36) after pravastatin treatment. LDL-C was normalized in 63.9% of the patients (23 of 36) after simvastatin treatment and in 44.4% of the patients (16 of 36) after pravastatin treatment. The percentage of patients whose LDL-C was normalized by simvastatin was significantly (p < 0.05) higher as compared with pravastatin. Results of this trial, which was conducted by a crossover method, show that the initial dose of simvastatin reduces serum cholesterol and LDL-C more potently than the initial dose of pravastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9270980
Competitive inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase improve hypercholesterolemia. However, reports about the effects of these agents on bile acid synthesis, the metabolic pathway of cholesterol, are conflicting. We studied the short-term effect on one of these agents, pravastatin, on bile acid synthesis. Six male volunteers were given 40 mg of pravastatin. Plasma mevalonate level (which reflects cholesterol synthesis) and 7 alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one level (which reflects bile acid synthesis) were measured every 2 h for 8 h. These plasma levels were compared to those of the same volunteers without pravastatin. Plasma mevalonate level after 2 h was lower than control (3.0 +/- 1.1 ng/mL vs. 6.7 +/- 2.5, mean +/- SD; P < 0.05). This decrease continued for 8 h (2.5 +/- 0.8 vs. 5.2 +/- 1.5; P < 0.05). On the other hand, plasma 7 alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one level did not change until after 6 h; then at 8 h it was lower than control (15.7 +/- 11.8 ng/mL vs. 24.7 +/- 16.9; P < 0.05). According to three-way layout analysis of variance, mevalonate level was influenced by both pravastatin treatment (P < 0.01) and time-course (P < 0.01). On the other hand, the 7 alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one level was affected by both individual difference (P < 0.01) and time course (P < 0.01), but pravastatin treatment did not influence this compound. This indicates that bile acid synthesis was influenced by pravastatin, although cholesterol synthesis was inhibited. The short-term inhibition of cholesterol synthesis did not affect bile acid synthesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9271481
Postmenopausal estrogen therapy has favorable effects on serum lipoproteins in women with normal serum lipid levels, but the effect of combined estrogen and progestin therapy on lipoproteins in women with hypercholesterolemia has not been determined, nor has it been directly compared with the effect of conventional lipid-lowering therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9271817
Tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) is a serine protease inhibitor that regulates tissue factor-induced blood coagulation. In an open-label 8-week study, 20 hypercholesterolemic patients (10 type IIa and 10 type IIb) were enrolled and given fluvastatin 40 mg once daily at bedtime. At baseline (after a 4-week controlled diet) and at week 8, total cholesterol, total triglycerides and lipoprotein subfractions were assessed. TFPI antigen levels were measured at the same time by ELISA. We also measured TFPI concentrations in 10 control subjects and in 10 patients at the time of and ten days after acute myocardial infarction. In type IIa patients fluvastatin reduced total cholesterol levels by 26% and LDL-cholesterol by 30% (P < 0.001); in type IIb, fluvastatin significantly reduced total cholesterol levels by 24% (P < 0.001). In both dyslipidemic groups the baseline total TFPI levels were significantly higher than in the control group (P < 0.002). The therapeutic lipid-lowering effect was paralleled by a significantly reduction of total TFPI antigen concentrations from 132 +/- 23 to 71 +/- 37 ng/mL (P < 0.001) in type IIa and from 120 +/- 30 to 91 +/- 29 ng/mL (P < 0.05) in type IIb patients; in control subjects total TFPI levels were 81 +/- 22 ng/mL; however the lipoprotein-bound TFPI antigen subfractions did not differ significantly in the treated and control groups. In patients with recent myocardial infarction there was a significant reduction from day 0 to day 10 in total TFPI antigen levels, from 120 +/- 48 ng/mL to 80 +/- 16 ng/mL (P < 0.05). The reported reduction of TFPI antigen levels after fluvastatin treatment could be a sign of normalization of an up-regulated clotting system rather than an unfavourable reduction of a natural anticoagulant.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9272889
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9290755
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9293439
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9294990
No monotherapy is able to tackle effectively all atherogenic features of familial combined hyperlipidemia: high low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglycerides (TG), and plasma fibrinogen, as well as low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. The present study investigated the safety and efficacy of combined pravastotin or simvastatin with gemfibrozil or ciprofibrate treatment on total cholesterol, LDL, TG, plasma fibrinogen, and apoproteins B and A-I in patients with refractory familial combined hyperlipidemia, with or without coronary artery disease. From the initial 420 patients included in the study, 389 (294 men and 95 women, mean age 51 years [range 30 to 65]) completed the study. These patients were followed for a mean period of 29 months (1 year [n = 107], 2 years [n = 102], 3 years [n = 95], and 4 years [n = 85]). Patients given a hypolipidemic diet were randomly assigned to pravastatin + gemfibrozil (n = 135, 20 and 1,200 mg/day, respectively), simvastatin + gemfibrozil (n = 130, 20 and 1,200 mg), or simvastotin + ciprofibrate (n = 124, 20 and 100 mg). Lipid parameters, apoproteins B and A-I, and plasma fibrinogen were assessed every 3 months. Physical and laboratory investigations for adverse effects were performed every month for the first 3 months and every 3 months thereafter. No patient exhibited myopathy or rhabdomyolysis. Five patients (1.3%) were withdrawn from the study because of high transaminases (more than threefold the upper normal limit). Five nonfatal coronary artery disease events were recorded. All 3 combination treatments were more effective in normalizing lipid profile than any monotherapy in the past. Simvastatin + ciprofibrate was more effective than pravastatin + gemfibrozil in reducing LDL, TG, and plasma fibrinogen levels. Simvastatin + gemfibrozil increased HDL levels more than the other 2. The apoprotein B decrease was analogous to the LDL reduction by all combinations, whereas apoprotein A-I was increased more with simvastatin + gemfibrozil. The data suggest that the statin-fibrate combinations used in the study are safe and have a favorable effect on all major coronary artery disease risk factors in patients with refractory familial combined hyperlipidemia with or without coronary artery disease. Early detection of the rare drug-induced reversible hepatotoxicity calls for close monitoring of patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9296289
Many large multicenter clinical drug trials are outcome trials with several thousand patients, therefore also called megatrials, numerous of which encompassing the cardiovascular field. Usually designed to test and compare the efficacy of a specific therapy with the major aim being improved outcome at hard end-points, specifically morbidity and mortality, they are representative of typical intervention trials. Considering also the risk of failure, examples of large multicenter therapy trials are examined as to their value to the patients, the society, the health care providers, and--finally--also the manufacturers of the respective drugs. The 'Syst-Eur Trial' (Systolic Hypertension in Europe) representing a very recent intervention trial to treat isolated high systolic blood pressure in elderly patients with treatment based on a calcium channel blocker, nitrendipine (CAS 39562-70-4, Bayotensin, Baypress), serves to indicate that besides the major end-point results, here total stroke rate, a number of important additional efficacy and safety results may be obtained with large trials, such as in this case favourable data on total mortality, myocardial infarctions, cancer, bleeding.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9296641
High serum cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol level and high blood pressure are risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). CVD risk factors usually occur simultaneously, fact that enhance personal and population CVD risk. Data from interventional studies suggest that reducing CAD risk factors significantly lowered risk of CAD. Fluvastatin, a statine, has been used in hypercholesterolemic populations. We report on a clinical trial (random selection) of fluvastatin vs. placebo on hipercholesterolemic patients (total cholesterol > or = 240 mg/dl and/or low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) > or = 160 mg/dl) on treatment of mild to moderate high blood pressure. Forty Latin-American patients were randomized to placebo or 40 mg per day for 8 weeks of fluvastatin. Fluvastatin patients had a clinical and statistical significant reduction on total cholesterol (27.7%) and LDL-C (39.1%) Vs a non-significant reduction on the placebo group (6.9% total cholesterol and 9.1% LDL-C). One patient had elevated aspartate (AST) and alanine (ALT) aminotransferases (three times the local laboratory upper normal levels) associated with a chronic alcohol consumption, reverted 6 weeks after protocol completion. There was no important secondary effects; also there was no differences on this regard between placebo and verum group. Fluvastatin proved to be safe and well tolerated for this group of patients under a wide range of high blood pressure treatment.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9297070
Decision makers in the field of health services are increasingly forced to identify and realise the grounds for spendings and savings. Therefore, preventive measures of cardiovascular diseases are becoming more and more scrutinized. The present analysis is answering the question: Is secondary preventive lipid-lowering therapy with a cholesterol-synthesis-enzyme-(CSE-)inhibitor in patients with manifest coronary heart disease cost-effective in comparison to other already proven medical interventions?

Abstract for pubmed ID 9312763
The high prevalence of hypercholesterolemia (HCh) in kidney transplant recipients probably contributes to the high cardiovascular mortality of these patients. Additionally, HCh is a contributing factor to the progression of renal failure. We conducted a prospective, randomised study with low dose Lovastatin in 42 kidney transplant recipients during 32 weeks, focusing on side effect and kidney function 42 consecutive patients with kidney transplanted in our Institute, with stable renal function (creatinine level < 160 mmol/l) treated with ciclosporine, azathioprine, prednisone were enrolled for the study (regardless of the initial cholesterol level). Every second patient was given Lovastatin 20 mg/night. In the Lovastatin group total cholesterol (TC) and LDL concentration were significantly lower after 6 months of treatment (TC was reduced from 242.5 +/- 12.8 to 220 +/- 15.4 mg/dl, p < 0.05) in Lovastatin group whereas in control group it increased nonsignificantly. Similarly LDL in Lovastatin group decreased from 140.0 +/- 7.0 to 121.3 +/- 10.8 mg/dl, p < 0.02 whereas in control group it increased from 143.6 +/- 5.4 to 169.9 +/- 10.3 mg/dl, p < 0.01. HDL and trigliceride concentrations were unchanged. The Lovastatin treatment did not results in more adverse events than the placebo treatment. Notably, the tendency to increase creatinine level in Lovastatin group was observed from 1.59 +/- 0.17 to 1.74 +/- 0.22 in Lovastatin group versus 1.89 +/- 0.22 to 2.21 +/- 0.35 mg/dl (NS). Low dose Lovastatin treatment seems to be safe and efficient cholesterol-lowering procedure. However we did not observe beneficial effect on kidney graft function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9313298
Blastomycosis is a rare but important fungal infection that is diagnosed primarily in the south-central and midwestern United States. Although some patients have subclinical infection and are not treated, the majority of patients with a clinical diagnosis of blastomycosis are treated with antifungal agents. Amphotericin B is curative but, because of toxicity, oral agents have been examined as therapy. Ketoconazole was shown to be effective for less than overwhelming blastomycosis, but adverse effects were relatively common. Itraconazole is a triazole agent that is more effective than ketoconazole, because it is often effective when ketoconazole fails or after relapse of infection following a response to ketoconazole. Fluconazole is not as effective therapy for blastomycosis based on the need for much higher doses than with itraconazole. In a patient with lifethreatening or central nervous system blastomycosis, amphotericin B should be given.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9314647
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9315428
The Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischemic Heart Disease (LIPID) trial is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the long-term effect of pravastatin on coronary mortality in patients with a previous myocardial infarction or unstable angina-ischemic heart disease (IHD). It is planned to run for at least five years with 9014 patients from 85 centers in Australia and New Zealand. The trial will monitor cause-specific mortality and major clinical events associated with each treatment. Running in parallel with the main study is a prospective economic analysis, the objectives of which are (1) to estimate the effectiveness of pravastatin compared with placebo in terms of survival, quality of life (QOL), and quality-adjusted life-years (QALY); (2) to estimate the resource usage associated with pravastatin compared with placebo-in particular, to study whether it alters resource usage through prevention of disease progression; and (3) to use this information for a cost-utility analysis with cost per quality-adjusted life-year as the unit of analysis. A novel aspect of the design is the use of a preliminary cost-effectiveness analysis, based on "best-guess" values, and a sensitivity analysis over plausible ranges to guide the choice of subsample size. Some data, such a mortality, days spent in hospital, major clinical events, and drug use, are being collected within the main LIPID trial. However, additional subsamples for the cost-effectiveness study will include information on quality of life, time off work, and resources used, such as time in hospital, procedures, and medications taken. The methods and sample sizes for these substudies have been a crucial issue in validity and feasibility.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9315523
Accelerated graft vessel disease (GVD) represents the most serious long-term complication of heart transplantation. A possible cause underlying this progressive coronary vascular disease is believed to be post-transplantation hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9315596
Marine oil plus simvastatin is an effective therapy for improving serum triglycerides, non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in patients with combined hyperlipidemia. Concurrent administration does not attenuate the individual effects of either marine oil or simvastatin on the serum lipid profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9315597
This randomized, open-label study compared the cost efficiency of low-dose pravastatin combined with low-dose cholestyramine with high-dose pravastatin monotherapy in 59 patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia and coronary disease. Both regimes were effective in improving lipid profiles in these patients; however, low-dose combination therapy enhanced achievement in therapeutic goals and cost efficiency.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9315598
The influence of lipid-lowering therapy employing a historic cohort study design was assessed following heart transplantation. Lipid-lowering therapy appears to confer a survival benefit in cardiac transplant recipients who survive beyond the first year.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9316510
This study sought to determine whether pravastatin affects clinical or angiographic restenosis after coronary balloon angioplasty.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9323100
Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) remains a troublesome long-term complication of heart transplantation. It is manifested by a unique and unusually accelerated form of coronary disease affecting both intramural and epicardial coronary arteries and veins.CAV is characterized by vascular injury induced by a variety of noxious stimuli, including the immune system response to the allograft, ischemia-reperfusion injury, viral infection, immunosuppressive drugs, and classic risk factors such as hyperlipidemia, insulin resistance, and hypertension. The obstructive vascular lesions are thought to progress through repetitive endothelial injury followed by repair response. The role of major histocompatibility complex donor-recipient differences in the pathogenesis of CAV has not yet been completely elucidated. Intracoronary ultrasound studies reveal a dual morphology with donor-transmitted or de novo focal, noncircumferential plaques in proximal segments and/or a diffuse, concentric pattern observed in distal segments. A lack of correlation between microvascular and epicardial vessel disease suggests discordant manifestations and progression of CAV. Apoptosis and loss of functional vascular remodeling have to be considered as important mediators of clinically relevant CAV. Strategies for blocking T-cell costimulation and expression of adhesion molecules may help prevent chronic rejection in clinical transplantation. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors and antiproliferative drugs may slow progression of CAV by various effects. Methods to augment endogenous nitric oxide bioavailability as well as newer immunosuppressive regimens may be protective. Balloon angioplasty has a limited role in the treatment of focal lesions. Experiences with coronary stenting, coronary artery bypass grafting, and transmyocardial laser revascularization are limited. Retransplantation has a worse outcome than initial transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9327830
A large number of drug trials for prevention of restenosis have been conducted with many showing little or conflicting benefit. Antiplatelets such as aspirin, ticlopidine and thromboxane A2 receptor inhibitors have not shown a clear benefit. Similarly, antithrombotics, either acting indirectly such as heparin, or as direct thrombin inhibitors such as hirudin and hirulog, do not prevent restenosis. Trials with ACE inhibitors, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and fish-oil supplements have yielded inconclusive results. The antiproliferatives, angiopeptin, trapidil and tranilast have shown some benefit in small-scale studies. Other drug classes of potential benefit include the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists, inhibitors of the early coagulation cascade, calcium channel blockers and nitric oxide donors. Drug research into restenosis prevention has been hampered by problems with the definition of restenosis and the applicability in humans of animal models. Although no single drug has conclusively proven effective yet, the promise of a number of agents, together with other nonpharmacological strategies will likely result in further reductions in the incidence of restenosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9337222
Evidence-based treatment of hypercholesterolemia currently recommended for rationalizing drug prescription requires justification of treatment by randomized trials, such as the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS) or the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), and evaluation of its benefit from the estimation of the coronary risk of each patient.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9339964
Micronised fenofibrate is a new formulation of the fibric acid derivative fenofibrate. It is indicated for the treatment of patients with type IIa, IIb, III or IV dyslipidaemia who have failed to respond to dietary control or other nonpharmacological interventions. Micronised fenofibrate has improved absorption characteristics compared with the standard preparation, allowing a lower daily dosage and once-daily administration. The lipid-modifying profile of micronised fenofibrate is characterised by a decrease in low density lipoprotein (LDL) and total cholesterol levels, a marked reduction in elevated plasma triglyceride levels and an increase in high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels. Consistent with the standard formulation, which is administered as 300mg daily in divided doses, the micronised preparation has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of type IIa, IIb and IV primary dyslipidaemias but at a lower daily dosage of 200mg once daily. Because of its significant triglyceride-lowering effect, micronised fenofibrate appears to be of greatest benefit in patients with hypertriglyceridaemia (with or without hypercholesterolaemia), including patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus and dyslipidaemia. In the comparisons available, micronised fenofibrate 200mg once daily was of similar efficacy to or less effective than the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin 20mg daily and pravastatin 20mg daily at reducing LDL and total cholesterol levels. However micronised fenofibrate produced greater improvements in triglyceride and, generally, HDL cholesterol levels than both simvastatin and pravastatin. Data on the long term tolerability of micronised fenofibrate are limited. However, data from a large short term (3-month) study have indicated that gastrointestinal disorders are the most frequent adverse events associated with therapy. Elevations in serum transaminase and creatine phosphokinase levels have been reported rarely with micronised fenofibrate. In conclusion, available data suggest that the more convenient lower once-daily dosage of micronisedfeno fibrate retains the beneficial lipid-modifying effects of the standard formulation. Further studies are required to determine whether the lipid changes achieved with micronised fenofibrate result in a reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9342581
The effect of pravastatin was evaluated using patient data accumulated in the data base of a hospital information system (HIS).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9343498
The impact of total serum cholesterol as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease decreases with age, which casts doubt on the necessity for cholesterol-lowering therapy in the elderly. We assessed the influence of total cholesterol concentrations on specific and all-cause mortality in people aged 85 years and over.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9348749
Preventive gerontology is the study and practice of those elements of lifestyle, environment, and health care management that will provide the maximal longevity of highest quality for individuals and the population. As such, it focuses on a personalized hygiene agenda that varies in its emphasis according to a person's age, sex, and risk factor profile. It includes a matrix of strategies relating to diet, exercise, and the avoidance of substance abuse and adverse environmental exposure. Preventive gerontology carries differential emphases according to the life stage of a person, featuring long-term, low-cost, and low-risk lifestyle strategies in youth and middle age (generally to age 75) and more short-term, low-risk interventions in old age (> 75), especially secondary prevention, according to individualized estimates of risk, cost, and benefit. The aggregate effect of widespread application of this approach--especially insofar as it is coupled with a rising level of education and continued psychosocial development--will be progressive congruency between usual and successful aging. A by-product will also be an ever-advancing median age of the population and, inevitably, a growth in long-term health and social service needs. Responsible planning for this consequence of success in the 21st century will require a rededication of North Americans to care for those in need regardless of age.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9349402
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9349932
Oxidation of low density lipoproteins (LDL) is thought to be an important step in the development of atherosclerosis. Trace metals are involved in oxidative processes. It was of interest to determine whether lipid-lowering therapy with fluvastatin, a potent HMGCoA reductase inhibitor, affected LDL oxidation and trace metal levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9351079
Recipients of renal transplantation (RT) exhibit disturbances of serum lipids and apoproteins that may contribute to their cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. In our renal transplant department the hypercholesterolaemia prevalence at the first and fifth year of RT is 70.0% and 81.2%, respectively. Lipid-lowering therapy has been utilized in many Transplant Units. The aim of our study was to evaluate post-RT hyperlipidaemia control with simvastatin or fish oil.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9353492
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9354305
The observation that relatively short periods of cholesterol lowering therapy can reduce the incidence of coronary artery disease events has prompted interest in the short term effects of lipoproteins on cardiovascular responsiveness. Numerous studies in animals and humans have demonstrated that oxidized LDL-cholesterol can impair endothelial dependent vasodilation in coronary arteries and peripheral resistance vessels. Reduction of plasma LDL-cholesterol levels in hypercholesterolaemic patients improves nitric oxide mediated vasodilator responses in the coronary and peripheral circulation. LDL-cholesterol also potentiates responses to vasoconstrictors such as noradrenaline and endothelin-1 in the absence of endothelium, possibly by enhancing calcium influx into vascular smooth muscle cells. Pharmacological reduction of plasma LDL-cholesterol levels has been shown to reduce blood pressure responses to intravenous infusions of pressor hormones and to stress. However, the relative contribution of changes in endothelial dependent vasodilation and vasoconstrictor or inotropic responses remains to be established. Short term changes in LDL-cholesterol produce changes in cardiovascular responsiveness that may influence the development of ischaemic events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9359537
This study describes the design, methodologic features, and baseline characteristics of an open-label randomized trial to determine whether aggressive lipid-lowering therapy with atorvastatin is an alternative to angioplasty or other catheter-based revascularization procedures in patients with significant coronary artery disease. Three-hundred forty-one patients with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol > or = 115 mg/dl and > or = 1 defined narrowing of a major coronary artery were randomized to atorvastatin or the indicated catheter-based revascularization and conventional care (including lipid-lowering therapy if prescribed). Ischemic events are tracked for 18 months. The primary efficacy parameter is the incidence of an ischemic event, defined as 1 of the following: cardiovascular death, cardiac arrest, nonfatal myocardial infarction, the need for coronary bypass grafting or angioplasty, cerebrovascular accident, and worsening angina verified by objective evidence requiring hospitalization (including unstable angina).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9362407
This study sought to examine whether lipoprotein(a) levels predict coronary artery lumen changes in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease (CAD) and normal to moderate hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9365661
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9368582
Recent clinical trials and meta-analyses of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) have demonstrated a reduction in ischemic stroke in patients with a history of coronary artery disease both with and without elevations of serum cholesterol. This review summarizes clinical trials of these compounds and their recent impact on stroke and explores the underlying vascular mechanisms of their actions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9369038
Reduction of cholesterol by potent drugs in clinically symptomatic or asymptomatic patients with elevated cholesterol levels will substantially decrease the risk of coronary events. In selected cases more aggressive treatment of hyperlipidemia is necessary, such as in patients, homozygous for familial hypercholesterolemia, or subjects with severe coronary artery disease who are refractory to diet and drugs. LDL-apheresis, by which atherogenic lipoprotein particles are removed from the blood extracorporeally, is a therapeutic option in these cases. In this report a study is summarized, in which the effect of intervention with LDL-apheresis plus simvastatin was compared with conventional drug treatment alone in a group of patients with severe coronary artery disease with respect to changes in coronary atherosclerotic lesions and their functional impact.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9374129
Apheresis only partially controls raised low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, who usually respond poorly to lipid-lowering drugs. The efficacy and mechanism of action of a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, atorvastatin, was therefore investigated in seven homozygotes undergoing apheresis. One receptor-negative and six receptor-defective homozygotes undergoing plasma exchange or LDL apheresis every 2 weeks were studied during 2 months each on placebo and on atorvastatin 80 mg daily. Changes in plasma lipids and mevalonic acid, an index of cholesterol synthesis, were measured and the kinetics of the rebound of low density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein B after apheresis were analyzed. All subjects had significant improvements on atorvastatin. Mean decreases in low density lipoprotein cholesterol were 31% greater both pre- and post-apheresis on atorvastatin compared with placebo, accompanied by a 63% decrease in mevalonic acid. Percentage changes in low density lipoprotein cholesterol and mevalonic acid were closely correlated (r = 0.89, P = 0.007). The mean production rates of low density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein B were 21% and 25% lower, respectively, on atorvastatin than on placebo (P < 0.005 and <0.02) but changes in mean fractional clearance rates were not statistically significant. We conclude that atorvastatin enhances the efficacy of plasma exchange and low density lipoprotein apheresis in patients who lack low density lipoprotein receptors. This effect appears to be due to marked inhibition of cholesterol synthesis which results in a decreased rate of production of low density lipoprotein.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9377592
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9377621
Recent studies have documented the long-term impact of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors on mortality and morbidity related to coronary heart disease, establishing the link between lowering cholesterol levels and reducing cardiac events. Our study was a comparative literature review and meta-analysis of the efficacy of four HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors-fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin-used in the treatment of patients with hypercholesterolemia. The data sources for our meta-analysis of the efficacy of these cholesterol-lowering agents were 52 randomized, double-masked clinical trials with at least 25 patients per treatment arm. The results showed all four agents to be effective in reducing blood cholesterol levels. We computed summary efficacy estimates for all published dose strengths for the four agents. Fluvastatin 20 mg/d reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels by 21.0% and total cholesterol (total-C) levels by 16.4%; fluvastatin 40 mg/d reduced these levels by 23.1% and 17.7%, respectively. Lovastatin 20 mg/d reduced LDL-C levels by 24.9% and total-C levels by 17.7%; lovastatin 80 mg/d reduced these levels by 39.8% and 29.2%, respectively. Pravastatin 10 mg/d reduced LDL-C levels by 19.3% and total-C levels by 14.0%; pravastatin 80 mg/d reduced these levels by 37.7% and 28.7%, respectively. Simvastatin 2.5 mg/d reduced LDL-C levels by 22.9% and total-C levels by 15.7%; simvastatin 40 mg/d reduced these levels by 40.7% and 29.7%, respectively. The results of our meta-analysis can be used in conjunction with treatment objectives and comparative cost-effectiveness data for these agents to decide appropriate therapeutic alternatives for individual patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9377955
Hyperlipidemia due to standard immunosuppressive agents occurs commonly following solid organ transplantation. A decision to treat hyperlipidemias would be based on the assumption that such disorders lead to accelerated atherogenesis and ultimately to cardiac dysfunction. We therefore sought to examine whether hyperlipidemias following lung transplantation were associated with a decline in left ventricular (LV) function.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9379151
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9381994
Accelerated coronary artery disease is the most serious obstacle to long-term survival in heart transplant recipients. Hyperlipemia, hyperinsulinism, and changes in endothelial cell hemostatic function have been implicated in cardiac allograft vascular disease. Both lovastatin and bezafibrate are safe, effective, and well tolerated therapies for hyperlipidemia. Our study compares the effect of these lipid-lowering drugs in 21 patients with post-heart transplantation hyperlipidemia on different risk factors related to insulin resistance syndrome. Patients were given the same diet for 3 months, then randomized to lovastatin or bezafibrate for a period of 8 weeks, and crossed over to an additional 8 weeks of either bezafibrate or lovastatin. Baseline parameters were also compared with those of a control group of healthy subjects and after both periods of pharmacologic treatment. Transplant patients had higher insulin (35 +/- 3 vs 24 +/- 3 microIU/L), fibrinogen (298 +/- 15 vs 261 +/- 14 mg/dl), and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) (17 +/- 2 vs 11.7 +/- 2 arbitrary units/ml) plasma levels than controls. Significant decreases in insulin (-37 +/- 3%), fibrinogen (-12 +/- 4%), and PAI-1 plasma levels (-18 +/- 12%) were only observed after bezafibrate treatment. In conclusion, bezafibrate decreases plasma insulin, fibrinogen, and PAI-1 in hyperlipidemic heart transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9382659
Secondary prevention of ischemic heart disease refers to the process of preventing further morbidity and reducing mortality rates in patients with clinical manifestations of the disease. Twenty-five large randomized, clinical trials addressing mortality rates and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with established ischemic heart disease are reviewed. Broadly defined, these were trials of aspirin and antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, lowering of cholesterol levels, exercise rehabilitation, and diet or vitamins. In trials using warfarin sodium, timolol maleate, propranolol hydrochloride, captopril, ramipril, and simvastatin and 2 diet studies, statistically significant improvements in total mortality rates were seen. Most other studies showed non-significant reductions in total mortality rates, with statistically significant reductions in 1 or more measures of cardiovascular morbidity. The methods necessary for the reader to calculate the number (of patients) needed to treat for other studies are also reviewed. The uses and limitations of the number needed to treat as a method to compare studies of different interventions in similar populations are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9388100
The results of the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) and the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events (CARE) study make abundantly clear the benefits of lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in patients with a history of coronary artery disease. Current guidelines in the United States and Germany recommend a treatment goal for LDL cholesterol of 100 mg/dl. However, the evidence for setting such a goal is not consistent among trials. It has even been argued that setting an absolute LDL goal may be unhelpful, per se, because the higher the patient's pretreatment LDL cholesterol, the more difficult achieving this goal becomes. It has also been recognized that measures to lower LDL cholesterol, and medications in particular, produce a relative rather than an absolute degree of reduction in circulating levels. For example, most statins produce a similar proportional decrease in LDL cholesterol irrespective of baseline LDL. Thus, if the baseline LDL is 180 mg/dl, the decrease in LDL with a particular statin dose may be 60 to 120 mg/dl, whereas if the baseline LDL is 120 mg/dl, the expected decrease in LDL with the same statin dose would be only 40 to 80 mg/dl (i.e., a 30% reduction in each case). These points have led some investigators to suggest that it may be more practicable to recommend the amount by which LDL should be lowered rather than by specifying an absolute level of LDL cholesterol which should be achieved. This report summarizes the proceedings of an international symposium held on this topic on October 4, 1996, in Berlin by the International Task Force for Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease and the Institute of Arteriosclerosis Research at the University of Mnster.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9388128
Laboratory investigations have demonstrated that blockade of HMG-CoA reductase in vitro reduces lymphocyte proliferation in response to mitogens as well as other facets of the immune system, such as natural killer cell cytotoxicity. However, in this randomized and double-blind clinical investigation, treatment with 20-mg lovastatin for 6 months did not significantly alter several enumerative and functional characteristics of circulating immune cells.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9395280
The pyridine derivative cerivastatin is a new entirely synthetic and enantiomerically pure inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase. As a sodium salt cerivastatin is present in the active, open ring form. Cerivastatin inhibited the membrane-bound (non-solubilized) HMG-CoA reductase of the native microsomal fraction isolated from rat liver with a Ki value of 1.3 x 10(-9) M. The reference compound lovastatin was 100-fold less potent and exhibited a Ki value of 150 x 10(-9) M. Cerivastatin inhibited the cholesterol synthesis in the human hepatoma cell line HepG2 cells with a similar IC50 value of 1.0 x 10(-9) M. In vivo studies reflected its high in vitro activity. In both rats and dogs, cerivastatin inhibited the hepatic [14C]cholesterol synthesis from [14C]acetate with an oral ED50 value of 0.002 mg/kg body weight, while lovastatin exhibited an oral ED50 value of 0.3 mg/kg in rats, showing again the ratio of 100 or more between cerivastatin and lovastatin. In the small intestine and testes, cerivastatin was at least 50-fold less active with oral ED50 values higher than 0.1 mg/kg, which is indicative for a high liver selectivity of cerivastatin. In cholestyramine-primed dogs cerivastatin dose-dependently lowered the serum cholesterol concentrations by up to 59% with 0.1 mg/kg after 20 days. Interestingly, the serum triglycerides were markedly reduced by 53 and 76% with 0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg, respectively. In normal chow fed dogs the low density lipoprotein (LDL) concentrations were reduced by up to 75% after 0.1 mg cerivastatin/kg. The ratio of HDL/LDL increased by 81% compared with a change of only 14% in the placebo treated control group. The antiatherogenic effect of cerivastatin was shown in rabbits fed a diet enriched with 0.2% cholesterol. After 9 weeks on diet 0.1 mg cerivastatin/kg decreased the accumulation of cholesterol ester in the arterial tissue by 73%. In summary, these data as compared to published data on other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors demonstrate cerivastatin to be the most active compound in this class. Vastatins used in therapy are effective in mg doses, while cerivastatin offers a new low dose therapy in the microg range.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9395824
Monumental advances in the field of lipid metabolism and its relationship to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease have been achieved during the last half century. Epidemiologic studies have defined lipid disorders as highly significant independent risk factors for coronary heart disease, along with diabetes mellitus, hypertension and smoking. Primary and secondary prevention studies including the Coronary Primary Prevention Trial, Helsinki Heart Study, and the Coronary Drug Project have shown that lowering the atherogenic low density lipoproteins (LDL) and very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) whilst raising the high density lipoproteins (HDL) significantly decreases the risk for coronary disease. Striking evidence that aggressive therapy (to sharply lower LDL and raise HDL with newer drugs) prevents progression and induces regression of coronary narrowing has been obtained in numerous recent studies using quantitative coronary arteriography. An interesting and unexpected lesson learned from these arteriographic studies was that a highly significant reduction within months in several studies in coronary events was out of proportion to improvements in luminal narrowing. Recently, three major clinical trials to assess the effects of cholesterol reduction by the newly discovered HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have been published. Pravastatin significantly reduced coronary events in hypercholesterolemic patients [mean LDL-Chol. = 5.0 mM/L (192 mg/dl)] without a history of myocardial infarction. In a secondary prevention study, simvastatin also reduced coronary complications in hypercholesterolemic patients [mean LDL-Chol. = 4.9 mM/L (190 mg/dl)] with pre-existing coronary disease. Very recently, pravastatin treatment significantly reduced coronary events and stroke in patients with a history of myocardial infarction and average cholesterol levels [mean LDL-Chol. = 3.6 mM/L (139 mg/dl)], representing the majority of patients with coronary disease. In all these studies, reduction in cardiovascular events was approximately one-third. In subgroup analyses, men, women, elderly, smokers and hypertensives benefited from cholesterol lowering. There was no significant increase in non-cardiovascular causes of death. In the United States of America, the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel, representing major health organizations, developed national guidelines on the detection, evaluation and treatment of high blood cholesterol in adults. In a given patient, the Panel recognizes the importance of weighing all cardiovascular disease risk factors including age (men > 45 years, postmenopausal women), family history of premature coronary disease, smoking, hypertension, diabetes and HDL-Cholesterol (< 35 mg/dl) in determining how aggressive therapy should be. The patient with manifest coronary heart disease (CHD) is given a special position as such patients are at highest risk for recurrent events. Major goals of therapy are to lower the LDL-Cholesterol to 2.6 mM/L (< 100 mg/dl) in the CHD patient. In non-CHD patients with two or more risk factors, the LDL-Cholesterol goal is 3.4 mM/L (130 mg/dl). In those with fewer risk factors, the goal is 4.2 mM/L (160 mg/dl). These guidelines should be modified as appropriate for Singapore. Patients with elevated triglycerides usually have low HDL-Cholesterol levels and often represent a heterogeneous group who may have other concurrent abnormalities including the presence of small dense LDL, insulin resistance, hypertension, obesity, overt diabetes and combined hyperlipidemia. Such patients merit individualized treatment. The prevalence of this syndrome may be more common in Singapore and requires further investigation. Current therapeutic guidelines emphasize the need for weight loss and dietary restriction of total and especially saturated fat (< 7% to 10% total calories), cholesterol (< 200 to 300 mg/day), and exercise. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

Abstract for pubmed ID 9399600
Atorvastatin calcium is an HMG-coenzyme A (CoA) reductase inhibitor that was approved by the Food and Drug Administration on December 17, 1996. Like other such agents, it inhibits the action of HMG-CoA reductase and thereby decreases endogenous cholesterol synthesis, leading to a decrease in circulating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. In addition to its effect on lipoprotein profile, atorvastatin reduces triglycerides to a greater extent than other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. These actions occur in a dose-dependent fashion. The adverse effect profile is similar to that of other agents in this class. Indications for atorvastatin include primary hypercholesterolemia as well as other lipid disorders.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9402435
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9402441
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9402444
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9402445
To assess the additional benefit gained from high compliance in the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study and to examine cases where withdrawal from trial medication was due to an adverse event.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9402446
Patient compliance is crucial for the effectiveness of preventive medication. The aim of the study was to investigate changes in serum cholesterol levels and the use of cholesterol lowering drugs one year after the end of the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), a randomized secondary prevention study of coronary heart disease with simvastatin and placebo.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9403282
The single-dose and steady-state pharmacokinetics of the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor pravastatin and its two metabolites, SQ 31,906 and SQ 31,945, were evaluated in 12 hemodialysis patients. A single 20-mg i.v. dose was employed, followed by daily oral dosing of 20 mg over four hemodialysis intervals.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9403876
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9404223
1. The reproducibility of measurements of the arterial wall thickness in both the carotid and femoral artery was investigated by means of high-resolution B-mode ultrasonography. For this purpose, subjects with normal and increased intima-media thickness were selected. Images were stored on an optical disk and were analysed with a semi-automatic software program by two readers. Individuals were scanned twice by two independent observers. 2. Measurements were performed of the far and near wall of the common carotid artery and bulbous in 30 healthy subjects and 19 patients known to have an increased intima-media thickness. Far-wall measurements were made of the internal carotid artery on both sides and common femoral artery on the right side only. 3. In healthy subjects the mean within-observer coefficient of variation was 1.8% and 3.0% for the far wall in the common carotid artery on the right side and left side, respectively. For the near wall the mean coefficient of variation of the common carotid artery was 2.8% on the right and 3.4% on the left side. The mean coefficient of variation was less than 4% for both far and near wall in the bulbous and far wall in the internal carotid artery. Even in patients with increased intima-media thickness the mean coefficient of variation of each segment was less than 4.5%. In the control subjects the between-observer coefficient of variation of the common carotid artery was 2.8% and 5.1% for the far wall on the right and left side, respectively, and 3.4% and 4.2% for the near wall on the right and left side. In healthy subjects a mean difference of 0.002 mm within observers was found in the right far-wall common carotid artery, with limits of agreement of -0.048 to 0.052 mm. The coefficient of repeatability was 0.050 mm. For patients with increased intima-media thickness the mean difference in this segment was -0.006 mm (-0.094 to 0.082) with a coefficient of repeatability of 0.088 mm. For the near wall in the common carotid artery and far and near wall in the bulbous and internal carotid artery the mean differences were larger, but were all below 0.1 mm. The differences and limits of agreements increased between observers. In patients the between-observer mean difference of the far wall of the common carotid artery was -0.055 mm (-0.255 to 0.145). For the common femoral artery of normal control subjects the within- and between-observer mean differences were 0.005 mm (-0.119 to 0.129) and 0.015 mm (-0.081 to 0.111), respectively. 4. In conclusion, the reproducibility of intima-media thickness measurements in the common carotid artery is reliable, even in patients with increased artery wall thickness. Also in other segments prone to atherosclerosis, such as the bulbous, internal carotid artery and common femoral artery, a good reproducibility was found. To obtain good reproducibility it is highly recommended to use the same ultrasonographer to scan patients in follow-up studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9405913
To study the long-term effects of simvastatin on urinary albumin excretion rate (AER) in normotensive microalbuminuric type 2 diabetic patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9408513
The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, clinical uses, adverse effects, drug interactions, dosage, cost, and therapeutic interchange of oral angiotension-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are reviewed. ACE inhibitors attenuate the formation of angiotension II and may lead to the accumulation of kinins. Although the hypotensive effects of many ACE inhibitors may persist for 24 hours, some patients require more than one dose per day to achieve adequate control. These agents accumulate in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction, but it is unclear whether dosage adjustments are necessary. ACE inhibitors are effective against mild to moderate hypertension; for severe hypertension, additional anti-hypertensive agents may be necessary. Other conditions in which ACE inhibitors have shown efficacy include congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction, left ventricular dysfunction, left ventricular hypertrophy, chronic renal insufficiency, insulin sensitivity, and coronary artery disease. The most common adverse effect is a persistent nonproductive cough. Angioedema, fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality, acute renal failure, and hyperkalemia may also occur. ACE inhibitors may interact with diuretics, lithium, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, oral hypoglycemic agents, and some other drugs. ACE inhibitor therapy should be initiated with low doses that may then be slowly adjusted upward. Many of the agents have similar costs for lower and higher dosages. The only significant differences among the ACE inhibitors are the time of onset of hypotensive effects, time to peak effect, and duration of effect. Each formulary should include, at least, captopril and one intermediate-acting and one long-acting ACE inhibitor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9408716
This article tackles both practical and statistical issues in the handling of multiple outcomes in clinical trials, with relevance to trial design, analysis, and reporting. Specific topics illustrated by examples include: the advantage of prespecifying priorities amongst outcomes and analyses, corrections for multiple significance testing and their limited value, problems with adverse event data, the use of a single global test of significance for clinically related outcomes, the use of a combined outcome for clinical event data, and the value of exploring interrelationships amongst outcomes. The problems in handling multiple outcomes are enhanced by trials being too small, dichotomous attitudes (is the trial "positive" or not?), obsession with p-values, and the manipulative instincts of human nature. While predeclarations of priorities in analysis and reporting of multiple outcomes are important in suppressing distortive claims, it would be unfortunate if too inflexible an approach suppressed unpredictable findings from being seriously considered.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9412771
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9412773
Elevated levels of lipoprotein (a), a complex between apolipoprotein (a) and LDL, indicate an increased risk of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. The important genetic regulation of lipoprotein (a) is now relatively well understood, but the progress in finding ways of influencing plasma lipoprotein (a) has been disappointingly slow. Nicotinic acid, pharmacological doses of sex hormones and anabolic steroids, as well as LDL apheresis may provide sufficient lowering of lipoprotein (a) for the evaluation of clinical response. Presently, the most important aspect is to take an evaluated lipoprotein (a) level into consideration when deciding to institute particularly aggressive lipid lowering treatment in a given individual.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9412774
The basis for treatment of lipid disorders in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus is weight reduction by diet and exercise, and additional control of glycaemic condition with oral antidiabetics, alone or in combination with insulin. Hypercholesterolaemic, mildly hypertriglyceridaemic non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients respond to cholesterol malabsorption caused by dietary sitostanol ester margarine, while long-term statin treatment of respective coronary patients significantly lowers the recurrence of coronary events, in addition to improving the lipid disorder. However, no information is available concerning the preventive effect of long-term improvement of lipid disorders in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients without coronary heart disease, or in patients with the 'classical' type of diabetic lipid disorder, that is, hypertriglyceridaemia with low HDL and normal-low LDL-cholesterol levels. In this group of patients, beneficial lipid effects can be obtained (although perhaps not normalization) with fibrates alone or, especially, in combination with current statins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9412777
Old lipid acting drugs (fibrates, resins and niacin) continue to demonstrate morbidity and mortality benefits with variable efficacy and safety. Controlled trials have provided efficacy and safety data that support the use of statins as the first choice in the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis. Knowledge of old and new mechanisms of action, optimal doses, pharmacokinetic behavior and drug interactions improve the safety and effectiveness of these hypolipidemic agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9412778
To more efficiently reduce the risk of coronary heart disease with lipid lowering therapy, cost effectiveness analysis offers an important tool to best determine how to allocate inherently limited resources to improve the health of both individuals and society. Formal economic analysis of the most recent clinical trials with the 3-hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) suggest that secondary prevention of coronary heart disease is very cost effective compared to existing treatment and prevention strategies. Primary prevention is also cost effective but has a much wider range of cost effectiveness depending on an individual baseline risk. Cost effectiveness can be better maximized in primary prevention by treating patients at the highest absolute risk of coronary heart disease. The debate about lipid lowering therapy will now shift from that of efficacy and safety, to that of cost and cost effectiveness. Defining the optimal treatment thresholds for intervention in primary prevention will become a major focus of investigation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9412944
Pravastatin dissolves gallstones in patients with hypercholesterolemia by reducing the cholesterol saturation index (CSI) of bile. There are few reports on effect of pravastatin on bile lipids, CSI and nucleation time (NT) in patients with gallstones and normal plasma lipid levels, or on the effect of pravastatin on gallbladder motility. Therefore we studied the effect of pravastatin on bile lipids, CSI, NT, and gallbladder motility in persons with normal cholesterol levels. We included 10 patients (ages 32 +/- 8 years; 6 men) with symptomatic gallstones and normal plasma lipid profiles. Estimation of bile lipids, CSI, and NT in duodenal bile and gallbladder motility were done using standard methods. Subsequently each patient was given 40 mg pravastatin daily for 1 month. At completion of pravastatin therapy, bile lipids and gallbladder motility studies were repeated. After pravastatin therapy, we found no significant reduction in bile cholesterol (11.2 +/- 3.2 vs. 10.4 +/- 2.8 mmol/l), bile acids (114.6 +/- 7.4 vs. 133 +/- 16 mmol/l), phospholipids (23 +/- 3.5 vs. 24 +/- 6.2 mmol/l), CSI (1.28 +/- 0.4 vs. 1.22 +/- 0.3), and nucleation time (7 +/- 3 vs. 7 +/- 3 days). In addition, there was no significant change in gallbladder fasting volume (26 +/- 3 vs. 26.6 +/- 3 ml), residual volume (14.6 +/- 1.1 vs. 15.08 +/- 1.4 ml), ejection fraction (44% vs. 43%), and rate constant of gallbladder emptying (0.018/min vs. 0.022/min). One-month therapy with pravastatin does not alter bile lipids, CSI, NT, and gallbladder contractility in persons with normal levels of cholesterol.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9415344
Combination therapy is routinely used to achieve improved cholesterol reduction in familial hypercholesterolaemia. We compared the standard simvastatin plus bile-acid sequestrant (cholestyramine) therapy with simvastatin plus fenofibrate in 29 patients with severe familial hypercholesterolaemia. The fibrate regimen resulted in an 35.1 +/- 10.7% reduction in total cholesterol, a 40.6 +/- 20.5% in LDL cholesterol, 17.2 +/- 56.5% reduction in triglycerides and a 20.3 +/- 52.0% increase in HDL cholesterol. The cholestyramine regimen produced reductions of 29.3 +/- 13.2% in cholesterol, 37.1 +/- 21.9% in LDL cholesterol, and 12.5 +/- 48.9% in triglycerides, and a 5.0 +/- 25.4% rise in HDL cholesterol. The fibrate regimen was significantly more effective in reducing total cholesterol (p < 0.001) and LDL-cholesterol (p = 0.004), and also reduced triglycerides significantly (p = 0.05), compared to the cholestyramine regimen. There were significant improvements in the LDL:HDL cholesterol ratio (3.62 +/- 1.54 vs. 4.00 +/- 1.36; p = 0.05) and in the apolipoprotein B:A1 ratio (1.13 +/- 0.036 vs. 1.20 +/- 0.34; p = 0.05). Gastrointestinal side-effects occurred in 10 patients on cholestyramine therapy, and four patients on fibrate therapy had myalgia. There were no cases of rhabdomyolysis with either regime. No significant differences in liver biochemistry or creatine kinase were seen with either regimen.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9416875
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9416884
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) demonstrated pronounced reductions in mortality and major coronary events in a cohort of patients with established coronary heart disease (CHD). The present study provides a detailed, post hoc assessment of the efficacy and safety of simvastatin therapy in the following subgroups of 4S patients: those > or = 65 years of age, those < 65 years of age, women, and men.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9416886
Reduction of serum cholesterol decreases mortality in primary and especially in secondary prevention. We investigated how effectively postmenopausal women with a previous myocardial infarction reduced their serum cholesterol with dietary means by using sitostanol ester rapeseed oil margarine, alone and in combination with statins, and to what extent cholesterol metabolism was affected.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9416913
The preponderance of evidence confirms the importance of aggressive lipid modification in patients at risk for coronary heart disease (CHD). However, data suggest that this information is underimplemented in the clinical setting, even in patients with existing CHD, in whom the greatest benefit of such treatment has been shown. The fact that many practitioners do not pursue a proven treatment strategy in patients who qualify must be redressed through education and reinforcement of existing recommendations. In the present review, the current clinical and mechanistic understanding of the benefit of aggressive lipid management is summarized, with a focus on the clinical implications of recent findings. These include growing public awareness of cholesterol as a modifiable CHD risk factor, recommendations for earlier and more aggressive intervention in patients with existing disease, and discussion of the cost-effectiveness of lipid-regulating therapy. Despite the secular trend of declining CHD morbidity and mortality rates in recent years, CHD remains the leading cause of death in both men and women in the United States. It is imperative to prevent any reduction in public focus on primary and secondary prevention.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9417765
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9420339
The high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentration is inversely related to the risk of coronary artery disease. The cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) has a central role in the metabolism of this lipoprotein and may therefore alter the susceptibility to atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9421099
Itraconazole strongly interacts with some drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4, for example, felodipine and lovastatin, by inhibiting their metabolism. A concomitant use of itraconazole increases the serum concentrations of digoxin, although digoxin is excreted mainly unchanged in urine. To reveal the mechanism of the itraconazole-digoxin interaction, the effect of itraconazole on the serum concentrations and urinary excretion of digoxin was studied. Ten healthy volunteers in a double-blind, randomized, two-phase crossover study received either 200 mg itraconazole or placebo orally once a day for 5 days. On day 3, each volunteer ingested a single 0.5-mg oral dose of digoxin. The serum concentrations of digoxin and its excretion into urine as well as plasma concentrations of itraconazole were determined up to 72 hours after dosing. The mean area under the serum digoxin concentration-time curve, AUC(0-72), was approximately 50% higher (P < 0.001) during the itraconazole phase than during the placebo phase. In addition, the renal clearance of digoxin decreased about 20% (P < 0.01) by itraconazole. The increases in digoxin Cmax and T(1/2) by itraconazole were not statistically significant. The decreased renal clearance of digoxin during the itraconazole phase partially explains increased concentrations of digoxin during their concomitant use and may be caused by the inhibition of P-glycoprotein-mediated digoxin secretion in the renal tubular cells.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9424603
The results of the secondary preventive care cardiological studies, 4S and CARE, which showed treatment with statins to yield a 30 per cent reduction in the frequency of cardiovascular events, are not directly transposable to stroke care, mainly because the mean age of the patients studied was 15 years less than that of typical stroke populations. However, results obtained in both epidemiological and randomised clinical studies of patients with coronary heart disease suggest that cholesterol-lowering medication might prove to be an important feature of secondary preventive treatment following minor stroke or transient ischaemie attacks.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9428469
Physiological insights gained in the 1980s into mechanisms of disease progression in experimental chronic nephropathies established the basis for therapeutic interventions to retard the progression of chronic renal disease in humans. In the 1990s, several large-scale clinical trials have confirmed the renoprotective effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in diabetic and nondiabetic nephropathies. Other studies have afforded strong support for the efficacy of dietary protein restriction in certain settings and underscored the importance of blood pressure control in proteinuric individuals. These interventions form the core of current strategies designed to preserve kidney function in patients with chronic renal disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9428949
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9428952
ASHP supports the use of niacin as an effective therapy for the management of dyslipidemias in adults. Successful and safe therapy requires ongoing supervision and instruction by qualified health care providers to monitor the efficacy of therapy and minimize niacin's potential for adverse effects. Because many niacin products are available without a prescription, pharmacists are in a unique position to help ensure that patients make the best use of this medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9430375
Patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HFH) have abnormalities in both low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor alleles, resulting in severe hypercholesterolaemia and premature coronary heart disease. Limited treatment options are available and the response to drug therapy has been poor. In the present paper, we have evaluated the efficacy and safety of simvastatin at doses beyond the current maximal dose of 40 mg/day in patients with HFH. After a 4 week placebo diet run-in period, 12 patients with well-characterized HFH were randomized to simvastatin 80 mg/day administered in three divided doses (n = 8; group 1) or 40 mg once daily (n = 4; group 2). After 9 weeks, the dose in group 1 was increased to 160 mg/day while the dose in group 2 was kept at 40 mg/day, but with the drug given in three divided doses and treatment continued for an additional 9 weeks. All 12 patients completed the study and there were no serious or unexpected adverse effects. LDL-cholesterol concentrations fell by 14% at the 40 mg/day dose, but were reduced further at the higher doses (25% at the 80 mg/day and by 31% at the 160 mg/day dosage, P < 0.0001). Excretion of urinary mevalonic acid, as an index of in vivo cholesterol biosynthesis, was reduced but did not correlate with reduction in LDL-cholesterol in the individual patients. The magnitude of response to therapy was not predicted by the LDL-receptor gene defect as patients with the same LDL-receptor mutations responded differently to the same dose of simvastatin therapy. The ability of expanded doses of simvastatin (80 or 160 mg/day) to reduce LDL-cholesterol levels in patients with HFH, even if receptor negative, suggests that at these doses, the drug reduces LDL production. Simvastatin therapy, at doses of 80 or 160 mg/day, should therefore be considered in all patients with HFH, either as an adjunct to apheresis, or as monotherapy for those patients who do not have access to apheresis or other such treatment modalities.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9431828
To investigate the effects of lipid lowering therapy on the fraction unbound and dosage requirement of cyclosporine in heart transplant recipients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9437275
To estimate the economic efficiency of using pravastatin to prevent the transition from health to cardiovascular disease in men with hypercholesterolaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9437409
The purpose of the present study was twofold. First, to determine the frequency of hyperlipidaemia after heart transplantation (Tx) in relation to values obtained before Tx. Secondly, to examine the effect of low-dose lovastatin on possible antiatherogenic mechanisms and test the hypothesis that the side-effects are dose-dependent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9441587
Stroke is a leading cause of death in the industrialized world, and hypercholesterolemia may be a risk factor for stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9451475
Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), type 1 and type 2, have an increased risk of coronary heart disease as a result of accelerated atherosclerosis. Dyslipidemia, often found in these patients, plays an important role in this process. This study investigates the efficacy and safety of lipid-lowering therapy with pravastatin, a 3-HMG-Coenzym A reductase inhibitor in hypercholesterolemic type-1 and type-2 diabetic patients. Of 49 patients (22 type-1 DM and 27 type-2 DM), 24 patients were treated with pravastatin, 20 mg/day, and 25 patients with placebo. After 24 weeks, total cholesterol (TC) was decreased by 22.2%, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol by 25.8% and triglycerides (TG) by 13.6%. Pravastatin treatment did not induce a significant change in high-density (HDL) cholesterol levels. No differences in effects of pravastatin treatment on serum lipids and lipoproteins were found with respect to the diabetes type. No serious side effects occurred and pravastatin treatment did not cause any deterioration in glycemia control. The data suggest that pravastatin is effective and safe in the treatment of dyslipidemia in both type-1 and type-2 diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9454018
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9456442
As part of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) two expert panel reports (1988, 1993) recommend serum cholesterol measurements in all adults aged 20 years and older and cholesterol-lowering treatment for those with abnormal levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9456448
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9456452
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9457149
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in women. Approaches to diagnosis and management of cardiovascular disease in women often differ from those in men. In some instances, these differences are justified by clinical trial and epidemiologic data.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9458414
This lecture on population studies was given in memory and honour of the late Professor Frederick Epstein. It relates to studies performed in Gteborg, Sweden. The main topics discussed in the presentation are: Coronary heart disease and stroke incidence according to the MONICA Project. Risk factors with special emphasis on relative and population attributable risk. Incidence and mortality of coronary heart disease in hospital and out of hospital. Quantitative aspects on treatment and prevention of myocardial infarction. The analysis was based upon a Myocardial Infarction Register which started in 1970, cross-sectional and prospective population studies primarily among men which started in 1963, cross-sectional studies among men and women based upon population studies (the MONICA Project) as well as studies of myocardial infarction. We have also been involved in many intervention trials in primary and secondary prevention regarding physical training, beta-blockers, thrombolytics, aspirin, anti-arrhythmics, ACE-inhibitors and lipid lowering drugs. In the Primary Prevention Study it was found during a 16 years' follow-up that the coronary heart disease risk was related to entry level of serum cholesterol both among those who had signs of coronary heart disease or angina pectoris, as well as among those with no such previous coronary heart disease events at entry. For each cholesterol level, the risk was about seven times higher among those who had had a myocardial infarction compared to those without any coronary heart disease event at entry. In those with angina the risk was about three to four times higher. An example shows how important it is to take the so-called 'regression dilution bias' into account, which results in steeper risk factor-incidence curves. The concept of 'population attributable risk' is also discussed. It is a general finding that the many with moderate elevations of risk factors contribute to most disease events. This is true for smoking, serum cholesterol, blood pressure etc. Results from various prospective studies have repeatedly demonstrated three main risk factors for coronary heart disease: cholesterol, high blood pressure and smoking, and they explain more than 90% of infarct cases in the middle-aged population. Other risk factors, including psychological, are, however, also of some importance and they are discussed briefly. The Gteborg population studies started in 1963. The data to 1990 show that among men there has been a decline in serum cholesterol and blood pressure, which has resulted in a decline in risk for coronary heart disease of 37%, well compatible with the registered decline of 30-40% in coronary heart disease incidence among men aged 45-54 years. Simultaneously, there has been a marked decline, especially among men, of 28-day fatality among hospitalized patients, but because most deaths occur outside hospital the decline in incidence has had greater importance for overall coronary heart disease mortality. Several studies have demonstrated the importance of stopping smoking, at least after myocardial infarction. Other interventions after a myocardial infarction are also important for the outcome, which has improved considerably over the last 20 years. In the general population in whom there is no sign of coronary heart disease, it is important to reduce risk factors among the many with moderate risk, by stopping smoking and changing diet.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9462596
The objective of this study was to assess the short- and long-term outcome of patients undergoing coronary stenting for chronic total occlusions compared with a control patient population with nonocclusive stenoses. A total of 789 consecutive patients (1,043 lesions) underwent coronary stenting using a high-pressure stent optimization technique. The study population was divided into total occlusion group (94 consecutive patients [95 lesions] with chronic total occlusions) and subtotal occlusion group (695 consecutive patients [948 lesions] with nonocclusive stenoses). There was no difference in post-procedure angiographic minimum lumen diameter (3.13 +/- 0.48 vs 3.15 +/- 0.57 mm, p = 0.72) and minimum intrastent cross-sectional area by intravascular ultrasound (7.31 +/- 2.06 vs 7.64 +/- 2.53 mm2, p = 0.26) between the total and subtotal groups, respectively. Subacute thrombosis occurred in 2 patients (2.1%) in the total group compared with 9 patients (1.3%) in the subtotal group (p = 0.63). Angiographic restenosis occurred in 27% vs 22% (p = 0.40) and repeat angioplasty in 15% vs 13% (p = 0.62) in the total and subtotal groups, respectively. Thus, coronary stenting of chronic total occlusions after successful recanalization could be performed with a high success rate. In addition, the incidence of stent thrombosis, angiographic restenosis, and the need for target lesion revascularization is comparable to that of an unselected cohort of patients with nonocclusive stenoses.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9462599
We reviewed the hospital records of 127 consecutive patients who were resuscitated from cardiac arrest in a retrospective cohort analysis. A cardiac arrest score utilizing time to return of spontaneous circulation, systolic blood pressure at the time of presentation, and initial neurologic exam were calculated. This score was analyzed with 39 other clinical variables for significance with regard to mortality or neurologic survival using multivariate analysis. Combining these variables into a cardiac arrest score (levels 0, 1, 2, 3, from least to most favorable) allowed prediction of neurologic outcomes and mortality from a single variable in an independent fashion (p < 0.0001). Logistic regression models found scores of 0, 1, 2, and 3 predicted in-hospital mortality rates of 90%, 71%, 42%, 18%, and neurologic recovery in 3%, 17%, 57%, and 89%, respectively. The cardiac arrest score was able to predict in-hospital mortality and neurologic outcomes in those who survived to emergency department arrival. This scoring scheme may aide in selection of patients for early aggressive measures, including triage coronary angiography and angioplasty.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9462602
Closed-loop arbutamine stress echocardiography has been shown to be safe and effective for detecting coronary artery disease (CAD) using a standardized infusion protocol and centralized core laboratory analyses. However, the accuracy of arbutamine stress echocardiography using local test interpretation has not been previously tested in a large population. The present study reports the safety, sensitivity, and specificity of arbutamine stress echocardiography in a multicenter trial allowing user-defined, nonstandardized protocols and local test interpretation. In all, 1,070 patients underwent arbutamine stress testing at 81 sites. Heart rate increased from 73 +/- 13 to 124 +/- 15 beats/min, systolic blood pressure from 144 +/- 24 to 174 +/- 25 mm Hg, and pressure rate product x 10(3) from 10.5 +/- 2.8 to 19.6 +/- 3.9. Among 1,070 patients, there were only 2 (0.2%) significant adverse events related to arbutamine, both of which resolved completely with appropriate therapy. There were no incidents of ventricular fibrillation, sustained ventricular tachycardia, or death related to testing. Among 242 patients who underwent arbutamine stress echocardiography and diagnostic coronary angiography within 12 weeks, sensitivity and specificity for detection of CAD were 71% (95% confidence interval 64% to 77%) and 67% (95% confidence interval 52% to 80%), respectively. Closed-loop arbutamine stress echocardiography is a safe and effective method for evaluating CAD in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9462603
Thrombolytic therapy or intense anticoagulation during percutaneous transluminal coronary revascularization (PTCR) increases the risk of vascular access site complications. This study evaluated the association of abciximab, a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blocker, with vascular access site complications after PTCR. Of 2,058 patients who underwent PTCR in the Evaluation of c7E3 for the Prevention of Ischemic Complications (EPIC) trial, major vascular access site bleeding (a drop in hematocrit > 15%), minor vascular access site bleeding (> 10% drop), or surgical repair of the access site occurred in 5%, 12%, and 1.4% of all patients, respectively. Minor and/or major bleeding or surgery occurred in 21.8% of abciximab patients, compared with 9.1% of placebo patients (p <0.001). Logistic regression analysis identified these predictors of minor and/or major bleeding and/or surgical repair, in descending order of importance: abciximab therapy, acute myocardial infarction at enrollment, high baseline hematocrit, time in catheterization laboratory, heavier weight, female gender, maximum in catherization laboratory activated clotting time, sheath size, and age (all p <0.05). Vascular access site complications increased median post-PTCR length of stay from 2 days (no bleeding) to 3 days (minor bleeding) and 6 days (major bleeding). Site-to-site variation in vascular access site complications varied sixfold. Analyses of subsequent studies of PTCR with abciximab will determine whether discontinuing heparin and removing sheaths early after PTCR reduces the risk of vascular access site complications.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9466141
There are various ways in which data for economic evaluations may be obtained, including via clinical trials and via economic modelling. There are numerous advantages and disadvantages associated with each method, although it is generally assumed that economic models lack the accuracy required for the calculation of meaningful cost-effectiveness data. In order to assess the predictive accuracy of economic modeling in the context of cholesterol-modifying pharmacotherapy it is possible to compare predicted coronary heart disease (CHD) incidence estimates obtained using CHD risk equations derived from the Framingham Heart Study (FHS) with actual CHD incidence rates achieved in a major clinical trial, the West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS). FHS-derived CHD risk equations substantially underestimate the actual risks of nonfatal myocardial infarction obtained by WOSCOPS. However, in predicting risks of death from CHD, FHS-derived CHD risk equations estimate extremely accurately the incidence obtained by WOSCOPS. For example, from WOSCOPS the risk of an individual fulfilling the trial entry criteria incurring nonfatal myocardial infarction or CHD death in 4.9 years is 0.079 for placebo group and 0.055 for the intervention group. Therefore, the relative risk for the intervention group relative to placebo group is 0.696, implying a risk reduction of 30%. Comparable risks predicted using FHS-derived CHD risk equations are 0.116 for the placebo group and 0.088 for the intervention group. Consequent relative risks and risk reductions for the intervention relative to placebo are 0.757 and 24%, respectively. Using both model and trial estimates of CHD incidence in an economic evaluation of cholesterol-modifying pharmacotherapy, incremental costs per life year gained are 41,707 Pounds using WOSCOPS data and 36,480 Pounds using FHS-derived CHD risk equations.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9468077
In patients participating in the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study, cholesterol lowering with simvastatin reduced the incidence of carotid bruits and cerebrovascular events as well as new-onset or worsening of angina pectoris and intermittent claudication. These effects suggest that simvastatin may have a general antiatherosclerotic effect not limited to the coronary bed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9472843
The extent of changes in CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 activities with higher therapeutic dosages (>50 mg/day) of sertraline is not well established in vivo. This study assessed the extent and determinants of changes in CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 isozyme activities after treatment with clinically relevant doses of sertraline. Patients and healthy volunteers aged 19 to 85 years (N = 21) were treated with sertraline for 5 to 55 days. The dosage of sertraline ranged from 25 to 150 mg/day (93.5+/-26.4 mg/day; mean +/- SD). All subjects had an extensive metabolizer phenotype for CYP2D6 and received a single oral dose of dextromethorphan (30 mg) and caffeine (100 mg) before and after sertraline treatment. The log O-demethylation ratio (ODMR) of dextromethorphan and the caffeine metabolic ratio (CMR) in overnight urine were used as in vivo indices of the CYP2D6 and CYP1A2 isozyme activities, respectively. Concurrent medications and lifestyle habits (e.g., smoking and diet) were monitored during the study. Baseline log ODMR (-2.33+/-0.45) but not CMR (5.1+/-1.9) (mean +/- SD) significantly changed after sertraline treatment (-2.19+/-0.62; 4.5+/-1.6, respectively) (p: ODMR = 0.04, CMR = 0.10). There was no significant effect of age, dose, duration of treatment, gender, sertraline and/or desmethylsertraline plasma concentration, subject type (patient or volunteer), and weight on the extent of changes in log ODMR or CMR (p > 0.05). In conclusion, sertraline treatment at a mean daily dosage of 94.0 mg did not significantly change CYP1A2 activity and resulted in a modest inhibition of CYP2D6 activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9472853
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9474468
The patency of a polytetrafluoroethylene (Gortex) graft 9 1/2 years after coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) is demonstrated. While this material is not commonly used as a conduit because of limited success in the past, this case demonstrates that, given the right circumstances, long-term patency is possible. Since available conduits for CABG are quite often limited, viable alternatives may be lifesaving and require further evaluation. In addition to mechanical considerations such as size, length, and material, anticoagulation and strict management of hyperlipidemia may be critical.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9474997
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9475827
To review recent developments in the pharmacotherapy of obesity, including the agents currently approved for use in the management of obesity and those under development.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9476029
To compare the overall utilisation pattern of lipid-lowering drugs between 1990 and 1994 in Australia, Finland, Italy, Norway and Sweden as well as the pattern of use with respect to age and gender in Italy and Sweden.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9476046
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9483717
Existing methods to analyse data from repeated arteriographic progression/regression studies are restrictive and do not fully explore the dynamics of coronary artherosclerosis. We present a new approach making a distinction between new occlusions, new lesions, and growth of existing lesions. Random effect models, based on the logistic, the Poisson, and the normal distribution are proposed with correlation depending on distance. The data from the Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS) are used to validate the model. Lipid lowering treatment of pravastatin resulted in less growth of existing lesions and fewer new lesions than when placebo was given. Fewer new lesions were found in segments influenced by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) than in segments not influenced by PTCA. Similarly, the growth of lesions influenced by PTCA was smaller than lesions not influenced by PTCA. More new occlusions were found in segments influenced by coronary arterial bypass grafting (CABG) than in segments not influenced by CABG, but 98 per cent of the new occlusions were located proximal to the bypass anastomosis. Similarly, existing lesions proximal to the bypass anastomosis showed larger growth (p < 0.001). We conclude that our new approach for analysing the arteriographic data from repeated coronary arteriographic studies appeared a fruitful way to analyse the dynamics of coronary atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9484618
Advances in stroke therapy have followed diverse paths over the past 2 years. Recent clinical trials have investigated the use of thrombolytic agents, anticoagulants, antiplatelet drugs and neuroprotective agents in acute stroke patients. The positive results of the National Institutes of Neurologic Disease and Stroke tissue plasminogen activator trial have increased interest in the field of acute stroke therapy and initiated significant changes in the management of stroke patients in the medical system. A new antiplatelet drug and a number of trials involving HMG Co-A reductase inhibitors are important advances in the secondary prevention of stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9485553
An HMG-CoA reductase inhibition assay was developed and validated for quantitation of atorvastatin in human, dog, rat, and mouse plasma. Atorvastatin was isolated from plasma by protein precipitation. Rat-liver microsomes were used to provide the reductase enzyme. The method was validated by assaying calibration standards and quality controls in triplicate on each of the 3 days. A customized computer program was used for data calculation. Quantitation of the assay ranged from 0.36 to 16 ng/ml of atorvastatin in different plasma matrices. Assay precision and accuracy, based on the coefficient of variation and percent relative error, respectively, of quality controls were 10.4% to 14.5% and within +/- 6.25% in human; 4.89% to 10.6% (+/- 8.13%) in dog; 2.68% to 8.62% (+/- 5.00%) in rat; and 3.68% to 8.96% (+/- 5.38%) in mouse plasma. The method has been applied to pharmacokinetic studies of atorvastatin in human and toxicokinetic studies in dog, rat, and mouse after atorvastatin administration. Atorvastatin equivalent concentrations in a set of plasma samples from subjects receiving single and multiple doses of atorvastatin were determined by validated HMG-CoA reductase inhibition assays at four different laboratories. Results were compared using linear regression and concordance correlation statistical procedures. Good agreements among these data indicated that results from different laboratories with the same validated method can be used interchangeably.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9487230
Knowledge about the natural history of coronary heart disease in women was limited until recent years. Few studies included women, despite the fact that heart disease is the No. 1 cause of death in women older than 50 years and the cause of about 500,000 deaths annually. Over the past decade, knowledge has increased owing to a combination of greater participation of women in medical studies, improved medical technology, and political pressure. While much remains to be learned, researchers have found that coronary artery disease in women typically follows a different course than it does in men. Women's risk factors also differ from men's, in part owing to the key protective role played by estrogen. Increasing knowledge about women and heart disease can provide new tools for physicians caring for women at risk of heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9487235
To compare the average and marginal life-time cost-effectiveness of increasing dosages of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, such as lovastatin, for the primary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9489067
Hyperlipidaemia is acknowledged as the major risk factor for coronary heart disease and atheroma progression. This review considers the strategies that should be followed to reduce overall cardiovascular risk in patients with hyperlipidaemia and deals with the identification and management of treating both polygenic and monogenic lipid disorders in the presence or absence of overt cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9490233
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9491945
Patients with prior manifestations of cardiovascular disease account for about 50% of all myocardial infarctions and 70% of deaths due to coronary disease. The benefits of lowering elevated cholesterol levels in patients with coronary disease are well documented. Recent clinical trials indicate that these benefits, in terms of reduced risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, extend even to patients with "average" cholesterol levels and support the importance of reaching a target low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level of < or = 100 mg/dl. These findings argue in favor of attaining and maintaining optimal lipid targets for secondary (and primary) prevention of atherosclerotic vascular disease in patients at risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9497506
To compare the effects of gemfibrozil and lovastatin in patients with hypercholesterolemia and increased lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9500689
Effects of long-term high-dose ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) and simvastatin treatments on cholesterol metabolism and biliary lipid compositions were compared in patients with cholesterol gallstones. Absorption and synthesis of cholesterol, serum and biliary noncholesterol sterols and lipids were determined in 14 patients randomized to UDCA (23-25 mg/kg/d) or simvastatin (40 mg/d) for 1 year. Simvastatin reduced serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 55%, and UDCA, by 9%. Cholesterol absorption was decreased (35%) by UDCA, but nonsignificantly increased by simvastatin (P < .05 for difference of changes caused by the two drugs). Whole-body synthesis and biliary output of cholesterol were both significantly decreased only by UDCA. In addition, UDCA inconsistently increased the proportions of serum and biliary precursor sterols of cholesterol, known to reflect cholesterol synthesis, but did not affect their biliary secretions. Simvastatin, however, dramatically reduced serum and also biliary cholesterol precursor sterol proportions and their biliary secretions and increased proportions of serum and biliary plant sterols and cholestanol, known to reflect cholesterol absorption, but had no effect on their biliary secretion. Only UDCA significantly decreased the molar percentage of cholesterol, the lithogenic index, and the cholesterol/phospholipid (CH/ PL) ratio in bile, whereas both treatments inconsistently decreased the vesicular CH/PL ratio (P < .07 in both groups). It is concluded that both drugs decreased serum cholesterol and inhibited cholesterol synthesis, but had a differing influence on precursor sterols and the absorption of cholesterol. UDCA had more beneficial effects than simvastatin on the antilithogenic properties of bile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9503169
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9504445
The aim was to examine the feasibility and efficacy of a multifactorial risk factor intervention program in hypertensive patients at high cardiovascular risk. Treated hypertensive men, aged 50 to 72 years, with at least one of the following: serum cholesterol concentration > or = 6.5 mmol/L, diabetes mellitus, or smoking were randomized to multifactorial risk factor intervention (n = 253) or usual care (n = 255). The specific intervention was based on group meetings to encourage a lipid lowering diet and smoking cessation. Cholestyramine, nicotinic acid, fibrates, and later statins were used either as single drug therapy or in combination, following agreed guidelines in patients in whom the nonpharmacological intervention was judged to be insufficient. Usual care was given according to clinical practice. The median follow-up time was 6.6 years. Sixty-four patients (25.1%) died in the usual care group, compared with 41 patients (16.2%) in the intervention group (P = .016; 95% confidence interval, relative risk 0.42 to 0.92). The overall risk for fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events was 29% lower in the intervention group than in the usual care group (P = .041). Relative to usual care, the intervention program lowered mean in-trial serum concentrations of total cholesterol (6.3%, P < .0001), LDL cholesterol (9.1%, P < .0001), and blood glucose (0.2 mmol/L, P < .05). Among smokers, at entry, cotinine-adjusted quit rates were 28% in the intervention group and 11% in the usual care group (P = .012) after 3 years. This study illustrates the very high cardiovascular risk in hypertensive patients 50 to 72 years of age with additional risk factors. The results indicate, however, that the gloomy prognosis may be improved by a dedicated risk factor intervention program.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9505147
Metformin reduces insulin resistance and hyperinsulinaemia, as well as lipid levels and body weight. The mechanisms behind these effects are likely to involve intracellular insulin signalling. Recent evidence implicates tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) as a modulatory factor on insulin resistance. The present investigation was undertaken to clarify whether metformin affects TNF-alpha and soluble TNF receptor levels. Sixty non-diabetic men with coronary heart disease were treated with diet and lifestyle advice and lovastatin 40 mg/day during a 4-week run-in period. During this period TNF-alpha and soluble TNF receptor p75 remained unchanged, whereas soluble TNF receptor p55 increased by 8% (P < 0.05). Twelve weeks of metformin treatment increased TNF-alpha by 33% (P < 0.05). This effect was restricted to non-obese patients in whom TNF-alpha increased by 68% (P < 0.01). Soluble TNF receptors p55 and p75 remained unchanged in the whole group, whereas soluble TNF receptor p55 increased by 11% (P < 0.05) in non-obese patients. Since metformin reduces insulin resistance both in obese and non-obese subjects but increases TNF-alpha levels only in the latter, it is concluded that the drug does not exert its effect on insulin resistance through regulation of circulating TNF-alpha levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9505908
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9509055
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9512650
We have compared the cellular responses to simvastatin (Simva) and atorvastatin (Atorva), two potent HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. The two drugs exhibited similar IC50's for inhibition of either rat or human reductase, and single oral dosing in rats showed the compounds to be nearly equipotent at inhibiting hepatic cholesterol synthesis. Treatment of rats with Simva or Atorva in the feed for four days yielded comparable inductions of hepatic reductase activity and reductase protein. For example, 0.05% Simva induced reductase activity 27.3 +/- 9.1 fold and 0.05% Atorva induced activity 26.9 +/- 4.7 fold. This adaptive response was also studied in HepG2 cells, a human hepatoblastoma line, cultured for 24 h in delipidated serum and then for an additional 24 h with Simva or Atorva. Over a broad range (10 nM-10 microM), both drugs caused similar inductions of reductase activity, reductase protein, and reductase mRNA. Under all conditions, the drugs induced similar changes in the ratio of mRNA/protein suggesting that Simva and Atorva have similar effects on both transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulatory machinery. Moreover, reductase in cells treated with Simva or Atorva for 22 h responded similarly to subsequent challenge with 25-hydroxycholesterol. Finally, we measured the ability of the two reductase inhibitors to reduce ApoB secretion by HepG2 cells. Simva and Atorva at 0.5 microM inhibited ApoB secretion nearly identically, 38% and 42% respectively. We conclude that these two drugs induce similar adaptive responses in cells and that their actions are qualitatively and mechanistically identical. Human studies have shown that plasma is cleared of Atorva much more slowly than it is of Simva. The large pharmacokinetic difference in man, rather than some difference in mechanism, is the most likely explanation for the finding that the equipotent dose ratio for cholesterol lowering in humans of Simva to Atorva is about 2/1.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9514453
The goal of the Myocardial Ischemia Reduction with Aggressive Cholesterol Lowering (MIRACL) study is to determine whether early, rapid, and profound cholesterol lowering therapy with atorvastatin can reduce early recurrent ischemic events in patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave acute myocardial infarction. Within 1 to 4 days of hospitalization for one of these conditions, 2,100 patients will be randomly assigned to receive atorvastatin, 80 mg/day, or placebo in a double-blind design. Both groups receive dietary counseling. Over a 16-week follow-up period, the primary outcome measure is the time to occurrence of an ischemic event, defined as death, nonfatal acute myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest with resuscitation, or recurrent symptomatic myocardial ischemia requiring emergency rehospitalization. Secondary outcome measures are the time to occurrence and incidence of each of the primary outcome components, as well as nonfatal stroke, worsening angina, congestive heart failure requiring hospitalization, and need for coronary revascularization not anticipated before randomization. The sample size of 1,050 patients in each group is expected to provide 95% power to detect a 30% reduction in the primary outcome measure with a 5% level of significance. The results of the MIRACL study will determine the utility of profound cholesterol lowering as an early intervention in acute coronary syndromes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9514454
The objective of this multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel-group, 8-week study was to evaluate the comparative dose efficacy of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor atorvastatin 10, 20, 40, and 80 mg compared with simvastatin 10, 20, and 40 mg, pravastatin 10, 20, and 40 mg, lovastatin 20, 40, and 80 mg, and fluvastatin 20 and 40 mg. Investigators enrolled 534 hypercholesterolemic patients (low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol > or = 160 mg/dl [4.2 mmol/L] and triglycerides < or = 400 mg/dl [4.5 mmol/L]). The efficacy end points were mean percent change in plasma LDL cholesterol (primary), total cholesterol, triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations from baseline to the end of treatment (week 8). Atorvastatin 10, 20, and 40 mg produced greater (p < or = 0.01) reductions in LDL cholesterol, -38%, -46%, and -51%, respectively, than the milligram equivalent doses of simvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin, and fluvastatin. Atorvastatin 10 mg produced LDL cholesterol reductions comparable to or greater than (p < or = 0.02) simvastatin 10, 20, and 40 mg, pravastatin 10, 20, and 40 mg, lovastatin 20 and 40 mg, and fluvastatin 20 and 40 mg. Atorvastatin 10, 20, and 40 mg produced greater (p < or = 0.01) reductions in total cholesterol than the milligram equivalent doses of simvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin, and fluvastatin. All reductase inhibitors studied had similar tolerability. There were no incidences of persistent elevations in serum transaminases or myositis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9514463
A substudy of the Lovastatin Restenosis Trial in patients with elevated cholesterol (>200 mg/dl) showed no evidence of an effect of aggressive lipid lowering on restenosis, confirming the results of the main trial.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9517370
To evaluate the resistance to oxidation of human lipoproteins after hypolipidaemic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9520115
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) was a double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled multi-centre clinical trial of long-term Simvastatin therapy in patients with coronary heart disease who had total cholesterol levels between 5.5 and 8.0 mmol/l, comprising 4444 patients, equally distributed to a Simvastatin and a placebo group. Patients achieved a significant 30% relative reduction in overall mortality with Simvastatin therapy through a 42% relative reduction in coronary heart disease mortality. Lp(a) lipoprotein levels in Scandinavian coronary heart disease patients were strikingly higher than in healthy controls. Numbers of deaths in the Simvastatin group differed significantly between quartiles of Lp(a) lipoprotein levels, the reduction in deaths being most pronounced in the second (next to lowest) quartile. Subjects with major coronary events had significantly higher Lp(a) lipoprotein levels than subjects without such events, in all groups. The relationship between Lp(a) lipoprotein level and total mortality as well as between Lp(a) lipoprotein level and major coronary events was significantly different from zero, in logistic regression analyses. The findings show that Lp(a) lipoprotein predicts major coronary events as well as death in secondary prevention with Simvastatin. This prospective study provides independent confirmation that a high Lp(a) lipoprotein level is a significant coronary heart disease risk factor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9521221
Statins (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A [HMG-CoA] reductase inhibitors) have been used for a decade to lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels and to improve cardiovascular disease and clinical outcomes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9528716
To compare trovafloxacin, a new quinolone antibiotic with enhanced activity against Neisseria gonorrhoeae, with ofloxacin as single-dose oral therapy for uncomplicated gonococcal urethritis or cervicitis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9528717
Oropharyngeal candidasis (thrush) is the most common opportunistic infection in individuals who are positive for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and those who have progressed to AIDS. Itraconazole has a broad in vitro spectrum of activity, including a wide variety of Candida species. Our study determined the relative efficacy of a new oral solution formulation of itraconazole and fluconazole tablets in the treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9528731
To assess the lipid-lowering effects and safety of atorvastatin and niacin in patients with combined hyperlipidemia or isolated hypertriglyceridemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9529261
We determined the effect of incorporating the results of eight recently published trials of Hmg CoA reductase inhibitors ("statins") on the conclusions from our previously published meta-analysis regarding the clinical benefit of cholesterol lowering.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9530546
Cerivastatin is a synthetic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor with high liver selectivity, which lowers plasma cholesterol levels by inhibiting endogenous cholesterol synthesis. In vitro, the affinity of cerivastatin for HMG-CoA reductase was higher than that of lovastatin, simvastatin and pravastatin. This higher enzyme affinity was reflected in vivo, with a lower ED50 (dose causing 50% inhibition) for cerivastatin in rats and beagle dogs compared with lovastatin. Cerivastatin 0.2 mg/day significantly reduced low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol, total cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and increased high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels, in patients with type IIa hypercholesterolaemia. Available data indicate that cerivastatin has a tolerability profile similar to that of other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. No drug interactions were observed when cerivastatin was coadministered with digoxin, warfarin, cimetidine or the antacid magnesium/aluminium hydroxide.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9531695
Cheyne-Stokes respiration (CSR) during sleep is common in patients with severe congestive heart failure induces repetitive oxygen desaturation with arousals, and impairs sleep. This causes daytime symptoms and likely an increase in sympathetic activity. It has, therefore, been suggested that CSR is independently related to mortality. The major mechanisms behind CSR include reduced body stores of oxygen, a low apneic threshold for carbon dioxide, prolonged circulation time between the lung and the carotid body, and disturbance of respiratory control due to arousals. It is apparent that the main task in treating CSR is the therapy of congestive heart failure. Indeed, diuretics to treat pulmonary congestion as well as ACE-inhibitors reduce CSR. Recently, theophylline (an antagonist of the ventilatory depressant adenosine) was shown to reduce CSR and oxygen-desaturation. Continuous positive airway pressure did improve CSR but not sleep and may reduce cardiac output in a subgroup of patients with heart failure. Nocturnal oxygen reduces CSR and improves exercise tolerance as well as sleep. This and its apparent safety makes oxygen an appropriate treatment for nocturnal CSR. Whether successful treatment of nocturnal CSR has any impact on the natural course of heart failure needs to be determined in further studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9534058
Several recent pieces of clinical evidence have demonstrated that reduction of cholesterol levels positively affects outcomes in both primary and secondary prevention of atherosclerotic vascular disease. The mechanism for the beneficial effects of cholesterol-lowering interventions has been attributed to decreased progression or actual regression of plaques as a consequence of reduced circulating LDL concentrations. Other mechanisms can be hypothesized, including a "stabilizing" effect on plaques, which would decrease chances of rupture, and an improvement of endothelial dysfunction, which would slow-down the progression of the disease. This review is aimed at offering an update on such mechanisms. The hypothesis of a direct action of cholesterol-lowering agents, in particular of statins, on endothelial functions, independently of LDL-lowering effects, will be discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9534865
Patients with familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCH) have an increased cardiovascular mortality despite only moderate elevations of LDL-cholesterol. Since endothelial NO release is intimately involved in the anti-atherosclerotic effects of the endothelium, we studied the effect of short-term lipid-lowering therapy on NO-mediated vasodilatation in patients with FCH. In view of only moderate LDL elevations, we evaluated whether alterations in other lipid fractions upon therapy correlated to changes in NO-mediated vasodilatation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9538988
Subjects with diabetes have a greatly increased risk of CHD, which is only partially related to their elevated glucose. Other factors such as insulin resistance and dyslipidemia are likely to be important. The type of dyslipidemia that is most characteristic of type 2 diabetic subjects is elevated triglycerides and decreased HDL cholesterol levels, although all lipoproteins have compositional abnormalities. Surprisingly few good prospective studies of lipoprotein levels in relation to CHD have been done in diabetic subjects. Available studies suggest that low HDL cholesterol may be the most important risk factor for CHD in observational studies. In studies in which total cholesterol and triglyceride were done, cholesterol and triglycerides were risk factors for CHD, although triglycerides were often a stronger predictor. However, the strength of triglyceride as a risk factor for CHD may depend partially on its association with other variables (e.g., hypertension, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 [PAI-1], etc.). In clinical trials in diabetic subjects, LDL reduction with statins has led to significant reductions in CHD incidence. In addition, overall mortality was reduced with statin therapy, although the results were not statistically significant. Gemfibrozil has led to reductions in CHD incidence in diabetic subjects, although the results were not statistically significant perhaps because of low sample size. Regarding lipoproteins and CHD risk in diabetic patients, the very positive results of statin trials point to LDL cholesterol being more important than previous realized. Apparently, having a borderline high LDL cholesterol (between 130 and 160 mg/dl) in a diabetic patient is equivalent to a much higher LDL cholesterol in terms of CHD risk for a nondiabetic subject. Therefore, the primary target of therapy in diabetic patients is lowering LDL cholesterol (or possibly, non-HDL cholesterol). Statins are the preferred pharmacological agent in this situation. Once LDL cholesterol levels have been lowered, attention can be given to treatment of residual hypertriglyceridemia and low HDL. The goal here is weight reduction and increased exercise. However, for selected patients, combining a fibric acid (or low-dose nicotinic acid) with a statin also can be considered. Reduction of LDL levels should take priority over reduction of triglycerides in combined hyperlipidemia because of the proven safety of the statin class of drugs as well as greater reduction in CHD incidence.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9544745
The relationship between molecular defect and clinical phenotype has been examined in 42 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) and premature coronary heart disease. The defined defects included mutations in the low density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor gene (23/42) or the apolipoprotein B Arg3500Gln mutation (5/42). Mean LDL-cholesterol was higher, both before and during treatment with simvastatin and bile acid sequestrants, in patients predicted as having a 'severe' mutation than in those with a 'mild' mutation (8.72 +/- 2.02 mmol/l vs 6.63 +/- 1.8, P = 0.05 before and 4.51 +/- 0.90 mmol/l vs 3.19 +/- 0.58, P = 0.05 during treatment). Maximum inducible LDL-receptor activity in cultured lymphoblasts was inversely correlated with LDL-cholesterol before (r2 = 0.499, P = 0.002) and during (r2 = 0.478, P = 0.004) treatment in patients with a defined mutation in the LDL-receptor gene, but not in the 14 patients with no detectable molecular defect. LDL-cholesterol concentrations before and during treatment were significantly correlated in patients with a defined LDL-receptor gene mutation (r2 = 0.548, P = 0.0001), but not in those with no detectable genetic defect. All these correlations were weak, however and there were no differences in the response to treatment in terms of either relative reduction or absolute decrease in LDL-cholesterol concentration between patients with different LDL-receptor defects. We conclude that only part of the variable phenotype of heterozygous FH patients is explained by different LDL-receptor defects and that other factors determine the severity of their hypercholesterolaemia and the onset of coronary disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9545143
Although epidemiologic studies proved that a causal relationship exists between elevated serum cholesterol levels and coronary heart disease, it is only recently that cholesterol-lowering strategies have shown significant reductions in total mortality. In the last few years, three landmark coronary artery disease-reduction trials with HMG-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) showed significant reductions in coronary heart disease and mortality. Statins have beneficial effects on coronary heart disease and overall mortality in primary and secondary prevention, including in women and the elderly. Angiographic studies reveal the potential mechanisms through which statins exert their clinical benefits.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9546501
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9546972
The most common cause of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is atherosclerosis, which begins with an alteration in endothelial biology due to hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, tobacco use, elevated levels of lipoprotein(a) or homocystinemia. With chronic and severe arterial disease, changes begin to occur in the microcirculation, including obstruction at the microvascular level and tissue injury. Based on insights into the vascular biology of PAD, new therapies have been developed and are at various stages of clinical trials. Future pharmacotherapy for PAD will include agents that have one or more of the following attributes; (1) reduce, or even reverse, the progression of atherosclerosis; (2) inhibit plaque rupture; (3) inhibit thrombosis by a novel mechanism; (4) induce angiogenesis; (5) reverse microvascular derangements; (6) affect blood rheology; and (7) enhance skeletal muscle's ability to use available nutrients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9547437
Although treatment of myocardial overload effectively reduces death from progression of heart failure, it is not known whether the retardation of progressive coronary artery disease obtained with lipid lowering treatment will prevent the onset and consequences of heart failure in patients without previous symptoms of heart failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9547438
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9549635
The objective of this study was to determine the effects of renal dysfunction on the steady-state pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of atorvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor. Nineteen subjects with calculated creatinine clearances ranging from 13 mL/min to 143 mL/min were administered 10 mg atorvastatin daily for 2 weeks. Pharmacokinetic parameters and lipid responses were analyzed by regression on calculated creatinine clearance. Correlations between steady-state atorvastatin pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic parameters and creatinine clearance were weak and, in general, did not achieve statistical significance. Although the elimination rate constant, lambda z (0.579), was significantly correlated with creatinine clearance, neither maximum plasma concentration (Cmax, -0.361) nor oral clearance (Cl/F, 0.306) were; thus, steady-state exposure is not altered. Renal impairment has no significant effect on pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9551029
To compare efficacy and cost of lipid-lowering agents in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9551706
Cerivastatin is a novel, synthetic, highly potent 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor that effectively reduces serum cholesterol levels at very low doses. It is exclusively cleared from humans via cytochrome P450-mediated biotransformation (demethylation M1; hydroxylation M23) and subsequent biliary/renal excretion of the metabolites. The influence of concomitant administration of erythromycin, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, on cerivastatin bioavailability and pharmacokinetics was investigated.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9551707
To determine the effects of cimetidine on the steady-state pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of atorvastatin, a 3-hydroxymethyl-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9552949
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9555684
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9555782
The hypolipidemic action of fibrates has recently been shown to involve the activation of peroxisome proliferator activated receptors establishing a molecular mechanism for this class of drugs. Increasing clinical trial evidence supports the efficacy of fibrates in the treatment of dyslipoproteinemias, particularly in patients with hypertriglyceridemia and low high-density lipoproteins.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9555954
To differentiate effects of lovastatin on low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity from effects on LDL metabolic properties, LDL apolipoprotein B (apoB) turnover was studied in eight hyperlipidemic subjects during baseline and lovastatin treatment, in the latter case with LDL tracers isolated during both baseline (CLDL) and drug treatment (Rx-LDL) conditions. Lovastatin (40 mg/day) significantly lowered total plasma and LDL cholesterol levels (27% and 25%, respectively) as well as plasma triglyceride levels (30%). Using contemporaneous tracers (C-LDL before and Rx-LDL during treatment), lovastatin caused a modest increase in LDL fractional catabolic rate (FCR) (0.410+/-0.113 vs. 0.339+/-0.108 pools/day, P < 0.04 by paired t). The increase in LDL tracer FCR was higher when C-LDL tracer isolated during the untreated period was injected during lovastatin treatment (0.496+/-0.177 vs. 0.339+/-0.108 pools/day, P < 0.02). These in vivo studies in humans were confirmed by injecting LDL tracers from two patients into five guinea pigs. The C-LDL tracer was cleared consistently faster than the Rx-LDL tracer (0.082+/-0.018 vs. 0.057+/-0.015 pools/h, P< 0.001). The results demonstrate three important outcomes of lovastatin treatment in these subjects: LDL receptor activity increased by 49% (P < 0.02); LDL apoB production rate decreased by 17% (P < 0.03), and LDL particle in vivo affinity for the LDL receptor decreased by 15% (P < 0.01). The decrease in LDL particle affinity partially negated the expected effect of increased LDL receptors on LDL clearance. The present study provides an explanation for earlier observations by several investigators using contemporaneous tracers that treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors resulted in only modest increases in low density lipoprotein functional catabolic rate.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9566646
Patients with combined hyperlipidemia are at increased risk for development of coronary heart disease. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficiency and the safety of treatment with Simvastatin and omega-3 fatty acids in patients with this lipid disorder.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9568741
The relationship between bioavailability and the serum cholesterol-lowering effect of YM17E, an ACAT inhibitor was investigated. Serum cholesterol levels in cholesterol-fed rats decreased after both oral and intravenous administration of YM17E. Marked inhibition of cholesterol absorption was observed after oral administration, but not after intravenous administration. YM17E and its five active metabolites were primarily distributed in the liver after intravenous administration, but in small intestine and liver after oral administration. Hepatic ACAT activity in cholesterol-fed rats was inhibited by intravenous administration. Cholesteryl ester input into plasma by Triton WR-1339 treatment to the rats was inhibited by intravenous administration of YM17E. Plasma clearance of 125I-LDL in cholesterol-fed rats increased after YM17E treatment suggesting a decrease in LDL production. These results indicate that the hypocholesterolemic effect of intravenous YM17E was due to hepatic ACAT inhibition, not an inhibition of intestinal cholesterol absorption. The contribution of ACAT inhibition in small intestine and liver on the pharmacological effect could be explained by plasma inhibitor concentration after oral or intravenous administration of YM17E. From these results, it is concluded that the change in bioavailability of ACAT inhibitors change the mechanism of hypocholesterolemic effects, shifting the relative contributions of small intestinal and hepatic ACAT inhibition.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9568752
Endothelial dysfunction is an important early event in atherogenesis. Changes in arterial endothelial physiology were studied in patients with severe primary hypercholesterolaemia participating in an ongoing clinical trial evaluating atorvastatin and simvastatin. Endothelial function was assessed non-invasively using brachial ultrasound and the primary outcome measure was flow-mediated endothelium-dependent dilatation (FMD) in response to reactive hyperaemia. Patients were studied upon entry while still using simvastatin 40 mg daily and again after a 10-week washout (baseline). Over the next 30 weeks, 20 patients received atorvastatin titrated up to 80 mg daily and 12 patients received simvastatin titrated up to 40 mg daily (plus cholestyramine 4 g daily in 10/12), followed by a final ultrasound study. During simvastatin washout, total and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol rose by a median 23-29% and 30-34%, respectively. During atorvastatin therapy, total and LDL cholesterol fell by a median of 41 and 46%, respectively, triglycerides fell by 45%, and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol rose by 10%. During simvastatin plus cholestyramine therapy, the respective median changes were - 32, - 39, - 44 and + 11%. Patients at baseline showed evidence of impaired FMD and this improved significantly on either treatment, from a median + 2.2 to + 5.5% on atorvastatin and from + 1.8 to + 4.5% on simvastatin plus cholestyramine (P < 0.01 for both treatments). Typical response in healthy subjects would be from + 8 to + 9%. FMD at baseline was correlated with HDL cholesterol (r=0.49, P < 0.01). Change in FMD was inversely correlated with baseline FMD (r=-0.54, P < 0.001). Endothelial dysfunction in primary hypercholesterolaemia was improved by treatment with atorvastatin or simvastatin plus cholestyramine and this effect may result in the prevention of future coronary events.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9570187
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9571327
To compare the lipid-lowering efficacies of simvastatin and gemfibrozil in NIDDM patients with combined (mixed) hyperlipidemia (CHL) or isolated hypercholesterolemia (IHC).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9576422
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9576423
The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study was a primary prevention trial that demonstrated the effectiveness of pravastatin (40 mg/d) in reducing morbidity and mortality from coronary heart disease (CHD) in moderately hypercholesterolemic men. The present analysis examines the extent to which differences in LDL and other plasma lipids both at baseline and on treatment influenced CHD risk reduction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9576424
Although LDL lowering has been shown to reduce recurrent coronary events in patients with coronary heart disease, little direct information is available on the extent of LDL lowering required to achieve this outcome.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9576425
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) randomized 4444 patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and serum cholesterol 5.5 to 8.0 mmol/L (213 to 310 mg/dL) with triglycerides < or =2.5 mmol/L (220 mg/dL) to simvastatin 20 to 40 mg or placebo once daily. Over the median follow-up period of 5.4 years, one or more major coronary events (MCEs) occurred in 622 (28%) of the 2223 patients in the placebo group and 431 (19%) of the 2221 patients in the simvastatin group (34% risk reduction, P<.00001). Simvastatin produced substantial changes in several lipoprotein components, which we have attempted to relate to the beneficial effects observed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9576433
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9585373
Of about 6.7 million Americans who have coronary artery disease, approximately 700,000 undergo various noncardiac operations annually in the United States. Perioperative cardiac complications remain the leading cause of morbidity and mortality not related to the primary operative procedure; the mechanisms of perioperative ischemia and infarction are unclear. Currently, clinicians, using a combination of clinical and laboratory findings, can estimate the risk of noncardiac surgical procedures with a high degree of precision, but much less is known about the preferred approach to patient management after noninvasive risk stratification. Coronary angiography and revascularization are frequently recommended for those determined by functional tests to be at moderate and high risk, but the risks of revascularization are often substantially higher among these patients. No randomized, controlled trials exist to guide patient management. Quantitative decision analysis based on published nonrandomized data suggests that coronary angiography with selective myocardial revascularization should be performed to reduce the risk of noncardiac surgery only if the risk of noncardiac surgery is greater than 5% and the risk of coronary angiography with selective revascularization is less than 3%. On the other hand, if independent indications exist for myocardial revascularization, it should generally be performed before the noncardiac operation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9585392
Diabetic patients have increased mortality following myocardial infarction. We review the evidence for benefit in diabetic patients, of the major drug groups used as secondary prevention. Beta blockers: meta-analyses suggest a reduction in mortality of 35% with beta blockers. Diabetic patients should receive beta blockers post myocardial infarction. In many patients, the benefits of beta blockers will outweigh relative contraindications. Aspirin: meta-analyses of antiplatelet therapy in high-risk subjects have shown substantial benefits. Aspirin should be prescribed for secondary prevention. Lipid lowering with statins: subgroup analyses of the major secondary prevention trials show substantial benefits across a wide range of baseline cholesterol and LDL levels. These drugs should be prescribed as secondary prevention to patients with diabetes whose total cholesterol is > 4.0 mmol(-1). Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs): the few subgroup analyses that exist from ACEI trials suggest that diabetic and non-diabetic patients derive similar benefits. Diabetic subjects who have systolic dysfunction after myocardial infarction should receive ACEIs. Treatment combination: data exist to suggest that most of these drugs produce benefit independently. Conclusion: diabetic patients benefit from secondary prevention with drug treatment as much as, or more than, non-diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9589824
The objective of this study was to assess the effect on serum lipid levels of the substitution of simvastatin for fluvastatin at a dose ratio of 8:1 (fluvastatin to simvastatin). A secondary objective was to determine the number of patients at goal lipid levels before and after this substitution. The study included 60 outpatients with hyperlipidemia who had received a constant dose of fluvastatin for at least 6 weeks. After a baseline 12-hour lipid profile (total cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein, and low-density lipoprotein [LDL]) was obtained, patients were switched from fluvastatin to simvastatin at an 8:1 dose ratio. Patients were instructed to split the simvastatin tablets in half with a pill splitter and to take one half-tablet at bedtime. A repeat lipid profile and liver function testing were performed after 6 to 8 weeks of simvastatin therapy. Lipid components were compared before and during simvastatin therapy using a paired t test. Target LDL levels were based on guidelines issued by the National Cholesterol Education Program. Fifty-six patients completed the study. No change in lipid components was observed, except for a statistically significant decrease in LDL. The majority of patients had a decrease in LDL levels, rather than an increase, after the conversion to simvastatin. Six patients required a dose increase of simvastatin in response to increased LDL levels. Forty-one percent of patients achieved goal LDL levels with simvastatin, compared with 30% with fluvastatin. Four patients withdrew from the study, two because of troublesome side effects and two for failure to complete the protocol. The results show that simvastatin can be substituted for fluvastatin at a dose ratio of 8:1 without loss of lipid control in the majority of patients and that by using this ratio and splitting tablets, significant cost savings can be realized.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9590460
The enhanced nonenzymatic isomerization of pravastatin to SQ 31,906, a relatively inactive metabolite, has been demonstrated to occur on exposure to gastric acidity in humans. However, the effect of gastric metabolism on the pharmacodynamics of pravastatin has not been studied. In addition, it was hypothesized that some individuals may be more extensive gastric metabolizers than others. Sixteen men received 4 weeks of oral therapy with pravastatin 10 mg after a 6-week drug washout diet run-in period. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters were determined after 8 hours of serum sampling on the final day of therapy. Patients with a metabolic ratio for area under the concentration-time curve (AUC0-8 of pravastatin/AUC0-8 of SQ 31,906) of less than 1.6 had a significantly lower reduction in total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol compared with those with a ratio > 1.6. An enteric formulation of pravastatin should increase the bioavailability of pravastatin and enhanced lipid-lowering efficacy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9591525
In this review the indications for the available treatments for dyslipidemias in the prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) are considered, and their efficacy according to the latest studies is analyzed. As data sources the authors used the main multicenter studies performed in the last twenty years to evaluate primary and secondary prevention of CHD by correcting dyslipidemias as well as the results of meta-analyses of these studies. All treatments considered were found effective in preventing CHD morbidity and mortality to some extent. In particular, the combination of diet with niacin or hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors seems to give the best results. These drugs induce a marked reduction of total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and an increase of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentrations. The use of diet, niacin, and HMG CoA reductase inhibitors reduces total as well as specific mortality. Treatment of dyslipidemia to prevent CHD depends on the pattern and severity of dyslipidemia, the presence of overt CHD, and the patient's response to diet. Pharmacologic treatment should be started only after dietary modifications have been tried and must be combined with diet. Drug side effects must also be considered, for they may affect patient compliance. High levels of total and LDL and low levels of HDL cholesterol are major risk factors for coronary atherosclerosis. Correcting lipid abnormalities can reduce the risk of development or progression of CHD. Diet and drugs are the main instruments available to normalize lipid levels. The choice of drug to combine with diet must be based on its specific effects on lipid metabolism, side effects, and efficacy in reducing CHD.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9593078
The beneficial effects of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) on coronary events have generally been attributed to their hypocholesterolemic properties. Mevalonate and other intermediates of cholesterol synthesis (isoprenoids) are necessary for cell proliferation and other important cell functions; thus effects other than cholesterol reduction may help to explain the antiatherosclerotic properties of statins. Recently we provided in vitro and in vivo evidence of decreased smooth-muscle cell (SMC) proliferation and migration by fluvastatin and simvastatin, but not by pravastatin, independent of plasma cholesterol reduction. The ability of fluvastatin to interfere with arterial SMC proliferation at therapeutic concentrations (0.1-1 microM) prompted us to investigate the pharmacologic activity of sera from 10 patients treated with fluvastatin, 40 mg once daily, on the proliferation of cultured human arterial myocytes. Pravastatin, 40 mg once daily, displays a lipid-lowering activity similar to that of fluvastatin without affecting SMC proliferation and was investigated as a control for assessing this non-lipid-related effect of fluvastatin. Fluvastatin and pravastatin, given for 6 days to patients with type IIa hypercholesterolemia, resulted in a similar decrease in low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. However, the addition of 15% whole-blood sera from patients treated with fluvastatin to the culture medium resulted in a 43% inhibition of cholesterol synthesis in SMCs (p < 0.01) that mirrored the pharmacokinetic profile of fluvastatin. When SMC proliferation was investigated, a significant inhibition of cell growth (-30%; p < 0.01) was detected with sera obtained 6 h after the last dose. No effect on SMC proliferation or cholesterol biosynthesis was observed when sera from patients treated with pravastatin were evaluated. These results suggest that statins exert a direct antiproliferative effect on the arterial wall, beyond their effects on plasma lipids, which could prevent significant cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9593550
Recent epidemiologic studies of the risk factors for early and late phases of transplant coronary artery disease (TxCAD) have identified metabolic abnormalities such as hyperlipidemia and insulin resistance as important risk factors, independent of rejection. In randomized trials, calcium channel blockers and hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors were shown to decrease coronary artery intimal thickening and stenosis. Furthermore, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors significantly decreased allograft loss during the first year after transplantation, resulting in a survival benefit, independent of TxCAD and cholesterol lowering. Prevention of acute allograft failure is consistent with known immunomodulatory actions of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, and the effects of calcium blockers in preventing TxCAD might have an immunologic basis by virtue of alterations of cyclosporine pharmacodynamics. Hence these two strategies for targeting antigen-independent mechanisms should lead to a significant reduction in the incidence of TxCAD, a goal that has until this time defied all the advances in immunosuppression during the past three decades of heart transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9595134
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9595713
To evaluate short-term efficacy of awareness programs (AP) in reducing coronary heart disease risk factors (CHDRF).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9600480
Although clinical trials have demonstrated the benefits of lipid-lowering therapy, little is known about how these drugs are prescribed or used in the general population.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9603532
Cholesterol lowering in patients with above-average cholesterol levels has been shown to reduce the progression of atherosclerosis and lower the risk of coronary heart disease events. However, there has been uncertainty about the effects of cholesterol lowering in patients with average or below-average cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9603548
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9603698
A number of pharmacologic interventions are now recommended for the prevention of cardiovascular disease, based on the results of randomized controlled trials. These include antihypertensive drugs, lipid-lowering agents, antiplatelet and anticoagulant drugs, estrogen replacement therapy, beta-blockers, and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. It is likely that additional pharmacologic interactions will soon be proven efficacious. Despite the strength of this evidence and the development of clinical guidelines incorporating their use, a surprisingly low proportion of patients are actively treated with these agents. There may be a variety of explanations for this, including barriers at the level of the patient, health care provider, and health care institution. Finally, a number of questions remain as to the optimal combination of interventions, both behavioral and pharmacologic, which will yield maximal reduction in risk. The description of factors which reduce the effectiveness of pharmacologic interventions below the efficacy demonstrated in randomized clinical trials should be a fertile area for epidemiologic and behavioral research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9610529
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a sensitive marker of inflammation, and elevated levels have been associated with future risk of myocardial infarction (MI). However, whether measurement of CRP adds to the predictive value of total cholesterol (TC) and HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) in determining risk is uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9612486
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9613910
Although cholesterol-reducing treatment has been shown to reduce fatal and nonfatal coronary disease in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD), it is unknown whether benefit from the reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in patients without CHD extends to individuals with average serum cholesterol levels, women, and older persons.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9613915
Clinical trials of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors or statin therapy have demonstrated that baseline or treated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels are only weakly associated with net coronary angiographic change or cardiovascular events. The beneficial effects of statins on clinical events may involve nonlipid mechanisms that modify endothelial function, inflammatory responses, plaque stability, and thrombus formation. Experimental animal models suggest that statins may foster stability through a reduction in macrophages and cholesterol ester content and an increase in volume of collagen and smooth muscle cells. The thrombotic sequelae caused by plaque disruption is mitigated by statins through inhibition of platelet aggregation and maintenance of a favorable balance between prothrombotic and fibrinolytic mechanisms. These nonlipid properties of statins may help to explain the early and significant cardiovascular event reduction reported in several clinical trials of statin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9615912
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are now the therapy of choice in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia. The effects of long-term treatment with these substances on plasma lipoproteins, cholesterol metabolism and biliary secretion of lipids have been extensively studied in humans. Much less is known about the effects of short-term treatment. The aim of this study was to determine the time course of the effects of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on plasma lipoprotein levels as well as cholesterol and bile acid synthesis in gallstone patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9620098
Mibefradil is the prototype of a new class of calcium antagonists that selectively block T-type voltage-gated plasma membrane calcium channels in vascular smooth muscle. The drug is structurally and pharmacologically different from traditional calcium antagonists. It does not have negative inotropism at therapeutic concentrations, and is not associated with reflex activation of neurohormonal and sympathetic systems. In clinical studies of hypertension, mibefradil 50 and 100 mg/day reduced trough sitting diastolic and systolic blood pressures in a dose-related manner. Dosages exceeding 100 mg/day generally did not result in significantly greater efficacy, but were associated with a higher frequency of adverse events. No first-dose hypotensive phenomenon was observed. Mibefradil has antiischemic properties resulting from dilation of coronary and peripheral vascular smooth muscle, and a slight reduction in heart rate. In clinical studies of chronic stable angina pectoris, dose-related increases in exercise duration, time to onset of angina, and time to 1-mm ST-segment depression during exercise tolerance tests occurred. Mibefradil reduced the number and duration of ischemic events recorded by 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiograph (ECG) monitoring, as well as number of anginal episodes and nitroglycerin consumption. Favorable hemodynamic and clinical profiles are reported, including high trough:peak ratios (> 80%), high oral bioavailability, and long elimination half-life (17-25 hrs) permitting once/day dosing. Dizziness, headache, leg edema, and lightheadedness are frequently reported, but overall the agent is well tolerated. First-degree atrioventricular block and sinus bradycardia are the most frequent ECG changes caused by the drug. In vitro studies indicate mibefradil inhibits cytochrome P450 1A2, 2D6, and 3A4, resulting in elevated plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by those isoenzymes. Therefore, it is contraindicated in patients receiving terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, lovastatin, or simvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9622140
Recently we have reported that insulin attenuates norepinephrine (NE)-induced vasoconstriction via a cyclic GMP-NO synthase pathway. Because hypercholesterolemia has been associated with abnormal endothelial function, we investigated whether insulin-mediated vasodilation is impaired in hypercholesterolemia. To assess vasoreactivity, NE (12.5, 25, 50, and 100 ng/min), NE (100 ng/min) combined with insulin (8, 16, 24, and 32 microU/min), and NE (100 ng/min) combined with sodium nitroprusside (0.01, 0.1, 1, 10, and 100 ng/min) were infused into dorsal hand veins. Changes in venous diameter were measured by ultrasonography, using a 7.5-MHz transducer. Twenty-two healthy, normotensive hypercholesterolemic subjects (HC; mean total cholesterol 6.93 mmol/L, HDL 1.45 mmol/L, LDL 4.81 mmol/L) and 18 age-matched normal control subjects (NC; mean total cholesterol 4.81 mmol/L, HDL 1.16 mmol/L, LDL 3.18 mmol/L) were studied. All HC had normal glucose tolerance test results. Baseline vein diameters were similar between groups, and the vasoconstrictor response to NE was not significantly different between HC and NC. Insulin significantly attenuated NE-induced vasoconstriction in NC but not in HC (P<0.01). Both groups were able to venodilate with sodium nitroprusside. To investigate the effects of cholesterol reduction on vascular reactivity, venoreactivity studies were repeated in 12 HC after treatment with 20 to 40 mg/d lovastatin for 6 weeks. There were no significant venoreactivity changes with the treatment. Plasma LDL cholesterol concentration was inversely correlated to venodilator effect of insulin (r=-0.42, P<0.02). In conclusion, insulin-mediated vasodilation is impaired in patients with high cholesterol. Absence of normal insulin-mediated but not sodium nitroprusside-induced venodilation in hypercholesterolemia suggests that insulin-mediated vasodilation is endothelium dependent.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9626835
In this B-mode ultrasound study we assessed pravastatin treatment effects on carotid and femoral artery walls and investigated the correlations between the state and evolution of peripheral and coronary atherosclerosis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9627154
Cardiovascular complications are frequently present in insulin-dependent (IDDM) and non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients and confer a very poor prognosis. In this overview we critically analyse the current literature with regard to the benefits and also the possible harms of the available pharmacological treatment strategies in these patients. To date, insulin is the only hypoglycaemic agent which has been proven both effective and safe in NIDDM patients with cardiovascular complications. Also, several trials indicate that treatment with oral hypoglycaemic agents may confer a substantial risk in such patients. Conventional antihypertensive treatment, including betablockers and diuretics, has been convincingly shown to reduce mortality and morbidity in diabetic nephropathy and in NIDDM patients. However, this may not be the case with newer antihypertensive agents, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers. Likewise, convincing evidence is lacking that these newer antihypertensive agents provide meaningful clinical benefit when compared to the conventional treatment regarding slower progression of diabetic nephropathy or their impact on lipid and glucose metabolism. Cholesterol lowering therapy with statins and aspirin treatment have also been repeatedly shown to improve the prognosis of diabetic patients with coronary heart disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9629123
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9636530
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9638964
Inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase are widely used for the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia and have recently been shown in the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), to reduce coronary mortality as well as total mortality in CH D patients. Although a couple of studies have already established the efficacy ratio between simvastatin and fluvastatin, one of the newest members of this class, we considered it to be important to verify the comparative efficacy in patients with coronary artery disease in the same type of patients that were included in 4S particularly since the previous studies include rather few patients with CHD, 17-28% only.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9639958
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9643764
Trials of drug treatment for prevention of sudden arrhythmic death have been disappointing, perhaps because suppressive therapy with arrhythmic agents fails to address the mechanisms leading to electrophysiological failure. We propose that preventive treatment should pay more attention to molecular mechanisms responsible for the progression of cardiac disease to electrophysiological failure. Most sudden cardiac deaths occur in people with atherogenic dyslipidaemias. Our hypothesis is that the pathogenic molecular mechanisms of dyslipidaemias contribute directly to arrhythmogenesis. Proinflammatory-prothrombotic lipid-derived mediators that may play a part in arrhythmogenesis include phospholipids and leucotrienes acting through the platelet-activating-factor and peroxisome proliferator-activated-receptor pathways. There are drugs available to test the hypothesis of dyslipidaemias-specific prevention of electrophysiological failure.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9645507
Hypercholesterolaemia is associated with endothelial dysfunction and increased risk of atheromatous disease. Although endothelial dysfunction has been demonstrated early in the course of the disease process, it remains difficult to establish a causal relationship. Despite this, endothelial function has been used as a surrogate marker in small trials to identify and assess the effectiveness of therapeutic interventions to reduce cardiovascular mortality, before large scale clinical trials are undertaken. Recently, arterial stiffness has emerged as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease and may provide a link between hypercholesterolaemia, endothelial dysfunction, hypertension and stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9646098
Atherosclerosis is characterized as a chronic inflammatory-fibroproliferative disease of the vessel wall. The attachment of monocytes and T-lymphocytes to the injured endothelium followed by their migration into the intima is one of the first and most crucial steps in lesion development. The co-localization of CD4+ T-cells and macrophages in the lesion, the abundant expression of HLA Class II molecules and the co-stimulatory molecule CD40 and its ligand (CD40L) indicate a contribution of cell-mediated immunity to atherogenesis. Transgenic mouse models revealed that dependent on the model T- and B-cells may promote lesion progression, monocytes and macrophages are in contrast essential for the development of atherosclerotic lesions. Apart from the local process in the vessel wall, systemic signs of an inflammatory reaction are also associated with lesion development. Thus plasma levels of C-reactive protein and fibrinogen and the white blood cell count are positively correlated to the risk of cardiovascular disease. Recently, an inflammatory phenotype of circulating peripheral blood monocytes could be demonstrated as a specific cellular correlate to lipid and lipoprotein risk factors. Thus the pool size of LPS receptor (CD14)dim and Fc gamma IIIa receptor (CD16a)+ monocytes positively correlates to plasma cholesterol levels, to triglycerides levels and to the apolipoprotein E4 (apo E4) phenotype in contrast to a negative correlation to the high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentration. This CD14dim CD16a+ monocytes are further characterized by a high expression of beta 1- and beta 2-integrins, suggesting a higher capacity for attachment at sites of inflammation. A proinflammatory cytokine pattern and an expansion of these cells in other inflammatory diseases are indicating that these cells promote the inflammatory process during atherogenesis. Surface expression of the activation antigen CD45RA on monocytes in correlation to plasma LDL cholesterol and Lp(a) levels further indicates an inflammatory reaction. Regarding the potential mechanisms of the phenotypic changes of peripheral blood monocytes, in a serum free in vitro differentiation model supplemented with M-CSF monocytes from probands which are homozygous for apo E4 showed a significantly higher increase of CD16a expression compared to apo E3/E3 cells indicating that a genetic polymorphism of a single apolipoprotein gene locus may affect monocyte differentiation. The further characterization of the cellular immunology of monocytes and T-lymphocytes in lesion development will provide new specific diagnostic and therapeutic targets in atherogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9646619
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9646621
High levels of total and LDL-cholesterol are associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic vascular disease. Lowering of serum cholesterol levels by pharmacologic intervention with inhibitors of cholesterol synthesis, the so-called statins, reduces the incidence of cardiovascular events in subjects with and without atherosclerotic manifestations. In a 16-week, multicenter, randomized, open-label cross-over study we compared the efficacy and safety of the new compound atorvastatin for reducing LDL-cholesterol with simvastatin or pravastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9648053
To evaluate the influence of an hydrophilic statin, pravastatin, on adrenal and testicular steroidogenesis and spermatogenesis, eight male hypercholesterolemic patients were studied. All patients observed a hypocholesterolemic diet and received placebo for 4 weeks followed by pravastatin (20 mg/die) for 6 months. Before, during (4th-5th week) and at the end (23th-24th week) of active treatment, CRH (1 microgram i.v.), ACTH (Synacthen 250 micrograms i.v.) and human CG (HCG 3000 IU i.m.) tests were performed in addition to semen analysis. Pravastatin significantly reduced total cholesterol (20.3%), calculated LDL-cholesterol (24.6%) and apolipoprotein B (10.5%, increased apolipoprotein A1 (16.1%) and did not influence plasma HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides. Basal plasma cortisol, aldosterone, androstenedione, testosterone and oestradiol did not change under active treatment. Pravastatin administration affected neither adrenal hormone responses to CRH and ACTH or testicular response to HCG nor spermatogenesis in respect of motility, morphology and sperm count. In conclusion, long-term pravastatin treatment, at doses effective in improving lipid profile, did not influence testicular reproductive and endocrine function and did not interfere with basal and stimulated adrenal activity of male hypercholesterolemic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9649013
Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy,3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase have been reported to decrease the cholesterol saturation index (CSI) in duodenal bile in humans and to prevent formation of cholesterol gallstones in animal studies. We performed a prospective study to evaluate the role of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors as gallstone-dissolving agents. Fifty patients with radiolucent gallstones in a gallbladder opacifying at drip infusion cholecystography were treated with either 10 mg/day simvastatin plus 600 mg/day ursodeoxycholic acid (group 1, n=26) or 600 mg/day ursodeoxycholic acid alone (group 2, n=24) for 12 months. The ratio of solitary to multiple gallstone cases was 21:29. Plasma lipid levels were assessed and ultrasonographic examination of the gallbladder was performed at baseline and at 3-month intervals during treatment. Duodenal bile sampling was performed in five patients in each group at baseline and after 12 months of treatment. Plasma cholesterol decreased significantly in group 1 but not in group 2. In solitary gallstone cases, no significant difference in dissolution rates was observed between groups 1 (3 of 9, 33%) and 2 (4 of 12, 33%). In contrast, the dissolution rate in multiple gallstone cases was significantly higher in group 1 (12 of 17, 71%) than in group 2 (3 of 12, 25%) (p < 0.01). Bile cholesterol saturation index was significantly decreased (p < 0.01) but did not significantly differ between the two groups. These results suggest that combination therapy with simvastatin and ursodeoxycholic acid is more effective for cholesterol gallstone dissolution than ursodeoxycholic acid monotherapy in patients with multiple gallstones.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9651560
Lipid-lowering drugs as 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors and cholestyramine are effective in reducing cardiovascular morbidity both in primary and secondary prevention. Patient compliance is an important determinant of the outcome of therapy. This study was designed to compare compliance with tolerance and lipid-lowering effectiveness of pravastatin and/or cholestyramine in primary care.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9651568
Nicotinic acid, an effective drug for treatment of combined hyperlipidaemia, is often not tolerated because of side-effects. Acipimox is a nicotinic acid like lipid lowering drug with less side-effects. We studied whether the addition of acipimox to simvastatin improves the lipid profile in patients with a combined hyperlipidaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9651906
Menopause is associated with a rise in serum lipid concentrations. We compared a regimen of pravastatin alone with pravastatin and hormone therapy in postmenopausal women with hyperlipidemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9652566
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9653591
Treatment of patients with diabetes often falls short of recommended process and outcome guidelines. To improve the quality of the provided diabetes care, a program (the Comprehensive Diabetes Care Service [CDCS]) using a computerizing tracking and recall system in conjunction with nurses following protocols was implemented in a managed care setting. The impact of this program was studied and compared to the care provided to patients in another managed care setting.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9663363
The use of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors has become common in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. The present uncontrolled study was undertaken to determine the effect of cerivastatin sodium (BAY w 6228), a new HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, on biliary lipid levels in patients with hypercholesterolemia. Twenty-one hypercholesterolemic patients (World Health Organization type IIa = 16 patients; type IIb = 5 patients) received placebo during a 4- to 6-week observation period, after which they received cerivastatin sodium 0.2 mg/d for 12 weeks. Fasting blood samples were drawn for the measurement of serum lipid levels early in the morning before the start of treatment and once a month for each of the 12 weeks of cerivastatin sodium treatment. Gallbladder bile samples were aspirated with a duodenal tube by cerulein stimulation to assess bile lithogenicity. Serum total cholesterol levels decreased markedly after 12 weeks. However, no significant difference was found in the molar percentage composition of biliary lipids (e.g., cholesterol, phospholipids, and total bile acids) or in individual biliary bile acids. Consequently, no significant change in bile cholesterol saturation index was found. The index values before and after 12 weeks of treatment were 0.81 +/- 0.38 and 0.80 +/- 0.47, respectively, whereas when patients were grouped by type of hypercholesterolemia, there was a tendency toward decreased lithogenicity in patients with type IIb but not type IIa hypercholesterolemia. We concluded that cerivastatin sodium was an effective cholesterol-lowering drug that did not appear to worsen biliary lipid metabolism and that may decrease lithogenicity in patients with type IIb hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9663369
Cerivastatin sodium, a synthetic and pure enantiomeric 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, is considered effective in the treatment of mild-to-moderate primary hyper-cholesterolemia (total cholesterol < or = 220-259 mg/dL) at a daily dose of 0.15 mg. We compared the efficacy and tolerability of a dosage of 0.3 mg/d with those of a dosage of 0.15 mg/d in patients with severe primary hypercholesterolemia (serum total cholesterol > or = 260 mg/dL). After a minimum of 4 weeks' lead-in with placebo, 73 patients with severe primary hypercholesterolemia were randomly assigned to receive either 0.15 or 0.3 mg of cerivastatin sodium once daily after the evening meal for 12 weeks. In 58 patients, the same drug was continued at a flexible dosage for an additional 36 weeks or longer to assess the long-term efficacy and tolerability of cerivastatin sodium. During the 12-week treatment period, serum total cholesterol levels decreased significantly from baseline in both dosage groups, but the percentage reduction was significantly greater in the 0.3-mg group (range, 24.4% to 25.6%) than in the 0.15-mg group (range, 19.4% to 21.6%). The percentage reduction in levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and apolipoprotein B and the percentage increase in levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were significantly greater in the 0.3-mg group than in the 0.15-mg group. When the results for the 0.3- and 0.15-mg groups were combined, the percentage of change in serum lipid levels at 48 weeks remained as stable as at 12 weeks. No serious adverse reactions were observed. We concluded that the higher dose of cerivastatin sodium was more effective than the lower dose, with comparable tolerability, in the treatment of patients with severe primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9663810
To examine the feasibility of using the human iris in vivo for the assessment of the interaction between tyramine and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. To examine the relative roles of the two forms of MAO in terminating the response to sympathomimetic amines in the iris, by comparing the effects of single oral doses of moclobemide, a selective MAO-A inhibitor, and selegiline, a selective MAO-B inhibitor, on mydriatic responses to tyramine.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9663814
During the world-wide clinical development of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor cerivastatin, pharmacokinetic data have been collected from studies performed in Europe, North America and Japan, covering different ethnic groups, mainly Caucasians and Japanese subjects, but also Black and Hispanics. The aim of the present investigation was to search for any inter-ethnic differences in cerivastatin pharmacokinetics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9665425
Plasma cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) concentrations were measured in Japanese subjects by an ELISA with two different monoclonal antibodies that were raised against rabbit CETP and cross-reacted against human CETP. Among 63 patients who consecutively underwent coronary angiography, the plasma CETP of 37 patients with luminal stenosis > or = 50% in their coronary arteries was not significantly different from that of the 26 patients with luminal stenosis < 50%. No other lipoprotein-related measurement except HDL-cholesterol differentiated the two groups. Among 40 hypercholesterolemic patients, no lipoprotein-related measurement other than LDL-cholesterol was found to positive correlate with the CETP. Before and after the treatment of 23 patients with simvastatin 5 mg a day for 4 weeks, plasma CETP markedly decreased in those whose pretreatment CETP was > or = 3 mg/L; no change was observed for those with lower pretreatment CETP. In the former group, negative correlation between CETP and HDL-cholesterol was demonstrated only in the posttreatment plasma.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9666222
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9666952
Lipid targets can be difficult to attain in familial hypercholesterolaemia. To compare atorvastatin with simvastatin-fenofibrate and simvastatin-cholestyramine therapy, we studied 54 patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia over periods of 2-6 months on each therapeutic regimen. The atorvastatin regimen reduced total cholesterol by 41.2 +/- 11.2%, LDL by 45.6 +/- 15.5%, triglycerides by 33.8 +/- 24.8%, and increased HDL by 2.3 +/- 37.0%. Simvastatin-fenofibrate therapy achieved reductions of 33.9 +/- 8.5% in cholesterol, 42.0 +/- 12.2% in LDL, 34.7 +/- 38.3% for triglycerides, and a 25.4 +/- 55.1% increase in HDL. Simvastatin-cholestyramine gave a reduction of 31.3 +/- 11.8% in cholesterol, 36.0 +/- 14.4% in LDL, 13.7 +/- 36.3% in triglycerides, and a 1.1 +/- 30.3% rise in HDL. The atorvastatin regimen was marginally but not significantly better than simvastatin-fenofibrate in improving the LDL:HDL ratio, LDL:apoB and and apolipoprotein B:A1 ratios. Eleven patients (20.4%) had side-effects: two discontinued atorvastatin due to side-effects; two patients had rashes; six had myalgia and two had diarrhoea. Gastrointestinal side-effects were described in 16 (30.1%) patients on simvastatin-cholestyramine therapy and four cases of myalgia (11.2%) were seen with simvastatin-fenofibrate. In nine patients on atorvastatin (20.4%) a 30% or greater fall in HDL was observed, compared to five patients with resin therapy (9.2%) and two with fibrate therapy (5.5%). There were no significant differences in liver or muscle biochemistry between the regimens, but atorvastatin did raise transaminase and creatine kinase concentrations significantly compared to pre-treatment values (p = 0.001). Atorvastatin significantly improves the lipid profile in most patients compared with other regimens. It has a comparable incidence of side-effects to combination therapy regimens.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9669241
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9669262
We sought to determine the effect of pravastatin on recurrent cardiovascular events in women with average cholesterol levels after myocardial infarction (MI).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9671003
Assessment of autonomic tone preceding the onset of atrial fibrillation (AF) after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with heart rate variability was examined in 64 patients scheduled for elective CABG (days 2 to 5). Ninety-six-hour Holter tapes were analyzed in each patient and all events labeled by an experienced technician. The hour preceding AF was divided into 4 quarters (heart rate variability calculated per quarter) and compared with similar time episodes from the group without AF. Twenty-six of 64 patients (40%) had a total of 35 episodes. Only increased age (68+/-5 vs 62+/-9 years) and lower ejection fraction (66+/-16% vs 73+/-8%) were associated with an increased risk for AF. Before onset, a greater number of atrial premature complexes was observed. The standard deviation of all RR intervals (SDNN) showed an increase in the group with AF in the last 15 minutes (significant vs controls and within the AF group). The low-frequency/high-frequency ratio was significantly lower in patients in the first 30 minutes, followed by an increase mainly because the high-frequency spectrum became less important. Thus, initiation of postoperative AF is influenced by autonomic tone variations. A shift in the autonomic balance with a loss of vagal tone and a moderate increase in sympathetic tone are observed before the onset of AF compared with those in controls.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9671004
Chronic postischemic left ventricular (LV) dysfunction can improve following coronary revascularization (hibernating myocardium). However, it is not clear whether the severity of LV dysfunction determines functional outcome after revascularization and the accuracy of tests to predict myocardial viability. We studied 47 patients with coronary artery disease and chronic LV dysfunction. Before coronary bypass, patients underwent (18F)2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp to assess viability. Global and regional LV function were assessed before and 4 to 6 months after surgery. Patients were arbitrarily divided into 2 groups with moderate and severe LV dysfunction. Group 1 (n = 26) had an ejection fraction (EF) of < or = 30% and group 2 (n = 21) > 30%. After bypass, the EF (22+/-6% vs 31+/-10%; p <0.0001) and global wall motion score (WMS) (2.05+/-0.39 vs 1.56+/-0.34; p <0.001) improved in group 1, whereas the EF (43+/-9% vs 43+/-12%; p = NS) was unchanged in group 2, although WMS tended to improve (1.42+/-0.38 vs 1.32+/-0.39; p = 0.09). The proportion of dysfunctional segments (72% vs 32%; p <0.0001) and FDG uptake in these segments (0.44+/-0.15 vs 0.34+/-0.15 micromol/g/min, p <0.0001) were greater in group 1 than in group 2. The baseline EF influenced the predictive accuracy of PET, with highest positive predictive accuracy in group 2 and highest negative predictive accuracy in group 1. Thus, coronary revascularization has the potential for greatest benefit in patients with the most severe dysfunction, but with evidence of viability, and the entity of LV dysfunction affects the predictive accuracy of viability studies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9671005
Despite effective treatment of left main coronary artery (LMCA) disease by coronary bypass, there is still need for treatment of the LMCA due to progression of disease or bypass graft failure. We compared the in-hospital and follow-up (1-year) outcomes of patients with LMCA stenosis treated with stents (n = 88), with a matched group of patients undergoing LMCA non-stent procedures (n = 36). Ninety-seven percent of patients in each group underwent previous coronary bypass. Procedural success (angiographic success without major in-hospital complications) tended to be higher in stent patients than in their non-stent counterparts (98% vs 92%, p = 0.12), and overall procedural complications were higher for the non-stent group (5.4% vs 0%, p = 0.03). The incidence of non-Q-wave myocardial infarction was higher in patients with the LMCA treated with stents than in non-stent patients (13% vs 2.7%, p = 0.09). There was no difference in death or Q-wave myocardial infarction between the 2 groups during follow-up. Overall target lesion revascularization at 1 year was 15% after LMCA stenting, and 18% in non-stent patients (p = 0.71). Also, any cardiac event-free survival (including death, Q-wave myocardial infarction, coronary bypass, or angioplasty) was similar for both groups (78% for stents vs 76% for non-stents, p = 0.85). We conclude that in patients undergoing LMCA interventions, stents reduce major hospital complications, but may not significantly reduce repeat revascularization or major cardiac events at 1 year compared with non-stent LMCA procedures.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9671014
In 614 consecutive hospitalizations with the primary discharge diagnosis of diagnosis-related group (DRG) 127 (heart failure and shock), we sought to assess the effect of caregiver specialty (generalist, n = 217; cardiologist, n = 397) on hospital costs, length of stay, and in-hospital mortality. Patients treated by cardiologists were younger (68 vs 71 years) and less likely to have hypertension (52% vs 61%), but were more likely to be men (61% vs 44%), require an intensive care stay (13% vs 5%), have coronary artery disease (49% vs 23%), have a left ventricular ejection fraction <40% (74% vs 49%), and have lower systolic (132 vs 146 mm Hg) and diastolic (76 vs 81 mm Hg) blood pressures on admission. Predictors of acute disease severity were similarly distributed between the 2 groups. No difference was found between patients treated by cardiologists versus those treated by generalists with respect to crude or adjusted hospital cost, length of stay, and in-hospital mortality. However, in subsets of patients who required intensive care during hospitalization (n = 64), as well as those who did not (n = 550), care by cardiologists was associated with a lower adjusted hospital cost. Any potential cost savings that could have accrued from care by cardiologists was, however, negated by the higher proportion of patients treated by cardiologists who required intensive care during hospitalization. We conclude that when differences in clinical variables are adjusted, care by cardiologists versus generalists is associated with similar or lower hospital cost for patients with DRG 127. Our findings challenge the notion that in-patient care provided by specialists is more expensive than that provided by generalists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9671018
We compared the effects of cholesterol-lowering therapy on 2 patient groups genetically defined as heterozygous for familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), 5 with a deletion of exon 15 (FH(Tonami-1)), and 7 with a point mutation at codon 664 (FH(Kanazawa-2)). There were significant differences in both serum and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol reductions between the 2 groups after combination therapy with pravastatin and cholestyramine, and the overall effect of genotype on serial changes in both was significant.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9673599
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9673745
Atorvastatin is a new member of the class of drugs which inhibit the enzyme Hydroxy-Methylglutaryl Co-A reductase, the rate limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9676722
This study was designed to test whether the law of regression to the mean explains the diurnal variation in the modulation of electrocardiographic variables during the treatment with antiarrhythmic agents. In part 1, in 34 subjects, ambulatory ECG monitorings were repeated twice, and the corrected QT interval (QTc) at a heart rate of 60 beats/min was calculated separately for the daytime and night. The individual diurnal QTc variation (day-night difference) of the first recording (4.4 +/- 3.3%) was significantly correlated with that of the second recording (5.0 +/- 3.1%; r = 0.61; p < 0.0001), and naturally, the second measurement tended to be lower than the first value in those with relatively greater baseline diurnal QTc variation and vice versa (p < 0.005). In part 2, 30 subjects undertook ambulatory ECG recordings before and during treatment with class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs. Mean QTc changes in the daytime and in the night with the drugs were comparable (18 +/- 17 ms and 19 +/- 15 ms). However, the day-night difference of postdrug QTc changes in each subject was inversely correlated with baseline diurnal QTc variation (r = -0.64; p < 0.0001). These observations in part 2 were comparable with those in part 1, and individual day-night difference in QT prolongation with antiarrhythmic drugs seemed to be a chance occurrence. It was suggested that the law of regression to the mean is appreciably reflected in the ostensible intraday variation of pharmacologic modulation of electrocardiographic variables.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9678767
Although associations of cholesterol and coronary heart disease (CHD) are well accepted, the association between cholesterol and stroke has been a subject of some confusion. Epidemiologic evidence suggests no association between plasma concentrations of cholesterol and stroke, and earlier clinical trials were also negative. Two early meta-analyses of clinical trials designed to evaluate the effects of cholesterol lowering on CHD concluded that cholesterol lowering had no effect. More recently newer, more potent and better tolerated agents (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, reductase inhibitors) have become available and have been tested for their efficacy in reducing cholesterol and CHD in both primary prevention and secondary prevention trials. Meta-analyses of these trials, in contrast to the earlier trials, reveal a powerful statistically significant effect to reduce stroke as well as CHD in secondary prevention (30%); the direction of the effect is the same in trials of primary prevention or trials that randomized patients with and without CHD (mixed primary and secondary prevention trials) where the risk reductions for stroke, although not reaching statistical significance are 11 and 30%, respectively. An important difference in the newer analysis is the availability of several trials of secondary prevention in which low density lipoprotein cholesterol was lowered 25-30% and in which CHD event reduction was similarly reduced by 30%. Mechanisms for stroke reduction likely involve retardation of plaque progression in the intracranial and extracranial carotid arteries, plaque stabilization, and, in addition, stroke may be reduced partly as a consequence of CHD reduction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9678976
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9683056
Hypertension and hyperlipidemia are common and powerful risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Although they may coexist in the same individual by chance, the syndrome of insulin resistance is the common mechanism in many individuals, in whom there is a specific lipoprotein profile of small, dense, low-density lipoprotein particles, reduced plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, and increased plasma triglycerides. This lipoprotein profile may be exacerbated by diuretics or beta-blockers. Initial management of the insulin resistance syndrome is by weight loss and dietary measures. Optimum antihypertensive and lipid-lowering drug strategy remains to be established.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9684746
A randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled cross-over trial was carried out to evaluate whether ubiquinone supplementation (180 mg daily) corrects impaired defence against initiation of oxidation of low density lipoprotein (LDL) related to effective (60 mg daily) lovastatin treatment. Nineteen men with coronary heart disease and hypercholesterolemia received lovastatin with or without ubiquinone during 6-week periods after wash-out. The depletion times for LDL ubiquinol and reduced alpha-tocopherol were determined during oxidation induced by 2,2-azobis(2,4-dimethylvaleronitrile) (AMVN). Copper-mediated oxidation of LDL isolated by rapid density-gradient ultracentrifugation was used to measure the lag time to the propagation phase of conjugated diene formation. Compared to mere lovastatin therapy, ubiquinone supplementation lead to a 4.4-fold concentration of LDL ubiquinol (P < 0.0001). In spite of the 49% lengthening in depletion time (P < 0.0001) of LDL ubiquinol, the lag time in copper-mediated oxidation increased only by 5% (P = 0.02). Ubiquinone loading had no statistically significant effect on LDL alpha-tocopherol redox kinetics during high radical flux ex vivo. The faster depletion of LDL ubiquinol and shortened lag time in conjugated diene formation during high-dose lovastatin therapy may, at least partially, be restored with ubiquinone supplementation. However, the observed improvement in LDL antioxidative capacity was scarce, and the clinical relevance of ubiquinone supplementation during statin therapy remains open.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9685274
To develop the number needed to screen, a new statistic to overcome inappropriate national strategies for disease screening. Number needed to screen is defined as the number of people that need to be screened for a given duration to prevent one death or adverse event.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9690949
The effects of itraconazole on the pharmacokinetics of fluvastatin and lovastatin, two inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase with different pharmacokinetic properties, were studied.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9690952
In September 1995, the indication for the oral dopamine agonist ibopamine was restricted in the Netherlands and in several other European countries to patients with NYHA-class II heart failure as a result of an interim analysis of the PRIME-II trial. This trial demonstrated an increased risk of mortality in patients with NYHA-class III/IV heart failure on ibopamine. In September 1995, we initiated an assessment of the effects of ibopamine under everyday circumstances in a cohort of users of ibopamine in all NYHA-classes.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9692657
To assess the efficacy of fluvastatin administered every other day versus an equivalent dose given daily in patients with hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9693942
Quantification of plasma levels of an early and late intermediate on the cholesterol pathway, mevalonic acid (MVA) and lathosterol respectively, provides a useful method of estimating cholesterol synthesis in humans. The aim of this study was to assess further their roles as indices of cholesterol synthesis under non-steady-state conditions.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9697820
Impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation is an early sign of atherosclerosis in hypercholesterolemic patients. We hypothesized that lipid-lowering therapy can improve endothelial function and that this effect is mainly mediated by increased bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9699886
Review and pooled analysis of the relevant worldwide literature was investigated from 1975 to 1996. Eighteen surveys out of 54 were suitable for analysis according to the selection criteria. This represents a total of 60494 observations from 26 countries all over the world. Data suggests differences as great as 76 mg/dl when comparing northern European countries to black African children. The overall curve of cholesterol with age observed in the pooled population indicates a pre-adolescent peak and then a slightly inverse change is observed for both boys and girls, from 3 to 12 years old being almost coincident absolute values. Beyond age 12, values for boys continue to slightly decrease to age 16, while for girls values tend to increase through this age-range. The curve in the late teens (16-18 years) tends to reach pre-teen levels for both sexes, although girls have consistently higher absolute values than boys. There is a great variation in the specific age-sex and race levels of cholesterol among different populations or even in the same populations over a period of time. However, an apparently universal pattern of an early rise, a fall, and a subsequent rise in mean values of total cholesterol by age from the preadolescence to late teens is observed. More data are needed on total cholesterol and lipid fractions between late school age and mid-adulthood.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9699902
Inflammatory processes play an important role in atherogenesis, and proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) are thought to be mediators in this phenomenon. We have previously established that peritoneal macrophages of LDL-receptor knock-out mice, which are hypercholesterolemic and are prone to atherosclerosis, have an increased LPS-induced cytokine production capacity, ex vivo. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the process leading to atherosclerosis in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is associated with increased cytokine production capacity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and/or increased expression of adhesion molecules on monocytes and lymphocytes. Furthermore, we assessed the effect of cholesterol lowering on the production capacity of PBMC, as these drugs are beneficial with regard to cardiovascular diseases. LPS-induced IL-1beta and TNFalpha production by PBMCs of 21 heterozygous FH patients appeared to be similar to the production by PBMCs of 21 healthy volunteers. In addition, expression of the LPS-receptors CD14 and beta2-integrins in nine patients and controls did not differ either. In a second series of experiments, HMG-CoA synthesis inhibitors were ineffective to change the LPS-induced production by PBMC of IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), IL-6, and TNFalpha. In conclusion, cytokine production capacity of blood cells or the expression of LPS-receptors on circulating PBMC do not deviate in subjects with FH and also do not change as a result of treatment with cholesterol synthesis inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9702933
To determine the actual use of 'statin' therapy for primary and secondary prevention and the potential effect of using the Sheffield Table for primary prevention of coronary heart disease upon 'statin' use in a consultant-run Hypertension and Cardiovascular Risk Clinic.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9704163
Internal carotid artery atherosclerosis is a major cause of ischemic stroke. Medical, surgical, and interventional options are available for stroke prevention in patients with carotid artery stenosis. Optimal management of the patient depends to a great degree on whether the individual is symptomatic or asymptomatic. Coexisting medical morbidities also greatly influence treatment decisions regarding carotid endarterectomy. This review highlights the current status of antiplatelet therapy and warfarin for stroke prevention in patients with carotid stenosis. The appropriate role of carotid endarterectomy for symptomatic and asymptomatic patients is also discussed. Finally, the current status of carotid angioplasty and stenting is outlined.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9706127
Atherosclerosis kills more patients with diabetes than all other causes combined. Aggressive reversal and treatment of dyslipidemias is the only proven prevention for coronary events in the patient with type 2 diabetes. Glycemic control with diet, oral hypoglycemic agents, and insulin, when necessary, is often only partially effective in normalizing lipid values in type 2 diabetes. Intensive treatment with lipid-regulating agents, particularly HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, is often necessary to normalize diabetes-associated dyslipidemias. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are also the only agents thus far shown in prospective multicenter trials to reduce the risk of coronary events in diabetic patients.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9708659
This randomized, multicenter, double-blind parallel-group study was performed to evaluate the lipid-altering efficacy and safety of simvastatin 80 mg/day, a dose twice the current maximum recommended dose. At 20 centers in the United States, 521 male and female hypercholesterolemic patients were randomly assigned in a ratio of 2:3 to receive simvastatin 40 or 80 mg once daily, respectively, for 24 weeks in conjunction with a lipid-lowering diet. Patients met National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol criteria for pharmacologic treatment. The mean percentage reductions (95% confidence intervals) from baseline in LDL cholesterol averaged at weeks 18 and 24 were 38% (-40 to -36) and 46% (-47 to -45) for the 40- and 80-mg groups, respectively (p <0.001 between groups). One third of patients on the 40- and 80-mg doses achieved an LDL cholesterol reduction of 46% and > or = 53%, respectively. Decreases in apolipoprotein B, total cholesterol, and triglycerides were also significantly greater among patients receiving 80 mg/day. Simvastatin was well tolerated in both groups. Two patients (0.6%) in the 80-mg group developed myopathy. Consecutive, clinically significant hepatic transaminase elevations occurred in 3 (1.0%) and 6 (1.9%) patients in the 40- and 80-mg groups, respectively (p= 0.486). In conclusion, simvastatin 80 mg/day provided substantial reductions in LDL cholesterol, allowing most patients to reach their NCEP target levels; it also had an excellent safety and tolerability profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9710685
The enzyme lecithin-cholesterol acyl transferase (LCAT) esterifies free cholesterol on high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) transfers cholesteryl ester to very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and low-density lipoproteins (LDL). Using statins, contradictory findings have been made regarding CETP activity in normolipidemic individuals and in those with familial dysbetalipoproteinemia. In contrast, LCAT activity appears to be unaffected by simvastatin. Antioxidants have also been proposed for the use of anti-atherosclerotic treatment, because the oxidation of LDL may have a key role in the pathophysiology of atherogenesis.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9712327
Few areas in medicine offer such an impressive portfolio of evidence of clinical benefit as does the implementation of statins in the avoidance of coronary heart disease. The West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study and the Air Force Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study together have triggered a fundamental reappraisal of the use of these agents in preventing the first heart attack. The scientific evidence in support of cholesterol lowering therapy is incontrovertible. Some questions still remain by they relate more to how treatment should be applied rather than whether it is advisable. There is no longer any controversy about the merits of lipid lowering and no justification for inertia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9713078
To compare the prevalence of risk factors, and the response to pravastatin treatment between men and women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9717348
To analyse the efficacy of health education (HE) through group session with postal back-up in furthering compliance with therapy for Lipaemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9721772
To identify the effects of estrogen and simvastatin, individually and in combination, on the levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) subclasses in postmenopausal women with type IIa hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9722499
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9722787
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9723378
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9723390
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9723640
Recent clinical trials dealing with cholesterol reduction in primary and secondary prevention for cardiovascular disease use Relative Risk Reduction to assess their clinical outcomes. Number Needed to Treat is a more valid measurement.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9723817
The novel finding that grapefruit juice can markedly augment oral drug bioavailability was based on an unexpected observation from an interaction study between the dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist, felodipine, and ethanol in which grapefruit juice was used to mask the taste of the ethanol. Subsequent investigations showed that grapefruit juice acted by reducing presystemic felodipine metabolism through selective post-translational down regulation of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) expression in the intestinal wall. Since the duration of effect of grapefruit juice can last 24 h, repeated juice consumption can result in a cumulative increase in felodipine AUC and Cmax. The high variability of the magnitude of effect among individuals appeared dependent upon inherent differences in enteric CYP3A4 protein expression such that individuals with highest baseline CYP3A4 had the highest proportional increase. At least 20 other drugs have been assessed for an interaction with grapefruit juice. Medications with innately low oral bioavailability because of substantial presystemic metabolism mediated by CYP3A4 appear affected by grapefruit juice. Clinically relevant interactions seem likely for most dihydropyridines, terfenadine, saquinavir, cyclosporin, midazolam, triazolam and verapamil and may also occur with lovastatin, cisapride and astemizole. The importance of the interaction appears to be influenced by individual patient susceptibility, type and amount of grapefruit juice and administration-related factors. Although in vitro findings support the flavonoid, naringin, or the furanocoumarin, 6',7'-dihydroxybergamottin, as being active ingredients, a recent investigation indicated that neither of these substances made a major contribution to grapefruit juice-drug interactions in humans.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9725547
The safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin, a novel, synthetic, potent, and highly selective HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, were studied in 48 young and elderly male volunteers in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Eight men ranging from 18 to 38 years of age (young) and 15 men ranging from 65 to 78 years of age (elderly) received 0.1-mg cerivastatin tablets daily for 7 days. The remaining subjects (8 young and 17 elderly) received matching placebo tablets. Cerivastatin was well tolerated in elderly and young subjects. Adverse events were mild and occurred less frequently in the participants receiving cerivastatin than in those receiving placebo. In those participants given cerivastatin, the incidence of adverse events was similar for both age groups (4 of 8 young subjects and 8 of 15 elderly subjects). Transient and mild elevations in creatine kinase and transaminase levels were evenly distributed across the cerivastatin and placebo groups. Pharmacokinetic parameters, including area under the concentration curve (AUC), peak plasma concentration (Cmax), time to Cmax (tmax), and elimination half-life (t1/2), were similar between the two age groups. The mean elimination t1/2 for both groups was approximately 4 hours. These results indicate that cerivastatin is well tolerated in elderly male volunteers at a dosage of 0.1 mg/day. Further, the pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin are not altered as a consequence of age. Dose adjustment is therefore not required in elderly men.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9725552
The effect of atorvastatin, a CYP3A4 substrate, on the pharmacokinetics of terfenadine and its carboxylic acid metabolite, fexofenadine, were evaluated. Single 120-mg doses of terfenadine were given 2 weeks apart to healthy volunteers with 80-mg daily doses of atorvastatin administered from 7 days before through 2 days after the second terfenadine dose. Concentrations of terfenadine and fexofenadine were measured for 72 hours after each terfenadine dose. Administration of terfenadine alone or in combination with atorvastatin produced no alterations in the QTc interval. For terfenadine, atorvastatin coadministration produced an 8% decrease in maximum concentration (Cmax), a 35% increase in area under the concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity (AUC0-infinity), and a 2% decrease in elimination half-life (t1/2). For fexofenadine, atorvastatin coadministration produced a 16% decrease in Cmax, a 2% decrease in AUC0-infinity and a 51 % increase in t1/2. None of these changes achieved statistical significance. Coadministration of atorvastatin with terfenadine does not result in a clinically significant drug interaction. Because 80 mg is the highest atorvastatin dose used clinically, drug interactions mediated by CYP3A4 inhibition are unlikely in clinical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9727666
Multiple trials using antiarrhythmic drugs, pharmacologic therapy, and implantable cardioverter defibrillators have been performed in an attempt to improve survival in patients: (1) postmyocardial infarction; (2) with congestive heart failure, with and without nonsustained ventricular tachycardia; and (3) with sustained ventricular tachycardia and those who have survived an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. This article reviews some of the key findings and limitations of completed and ongoing trials. We also make recommendations for the current treatment of such patients based on the results of these trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9729143
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9732899
A prospective study of 500 consecutive persons (aged 60 years with Q-wave myocardial infarction admitted to a long-term health care facility) investigated the prevalence of the use of a lipid-lowering drug at the time of admission in persons with a fasting serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol >125 mg/dl measured the day after admission. The prevalence of a lipid-lowering drug in persons with myocardial infarction and an LDL cholesterol >125 mg/dl was 7% (11 of 153 persons) in persons 60 to 80 years of age and 3% (6 of 182 persons) in persons 81 to 100 years of age.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9732913
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9738605
To describe recent temporal patterns of cholesterol-lowering medication use and the characteristics that may have influenced the initiation of cholesterol-lowering therapy among those aged 65 years or older.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9738634
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9738637
We studied whether inflammation after myocardial infarction (MI) is a risk factor for recurrent coronary events and whether randomized treatment with pravastatin reduces that risk.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9739497
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9741509
This study compared the efficacy and safety of atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin in patients with documented atherosclerosis treated to U.S. National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) recommended low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentration (< or = 100 mg/dl [2.59 mmol/liter]).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9757381
Those people who are to decide about health care systems are increasingly forced to identify unnecessary costs and achieve savings in health care. Especially for diseases with high prevalence like illnesses of the heart and the circulatory system preventive measures are very important. This economic analysis tries to clarify whether the secondary-preventive application of the HMG-CoA reductase-inhibitor pravastatin is, apart from the clinical benefit, economically justified in patients suffering from coronary heart disease with average cholesterol levels. In the case of this study, the underlying type of economic evaluation was an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis. The outcome was defined as costs per life-year saved. This retrospective study is based on the results of the CARE (Cholesterol And Recurrent Events) study which has been published elsewhere [21]. When calculating costs we took into account the perspective of 3rd party payers (public health insurance) in Germany. The calculation of cost-effectiveness was carried out for the whole study population in CARE as well as for all patients aged 60 or more years in the CARE study. This was done because the different groups vary by the numbers of avoided myocardial infarctions, strokes and loss of life years. Netcosts for pravastatin therapy, i.e. drug costs for pravastatin minus costs for avoided events, were about 9.54 Mio DM (referring to 1,000 patients treated for a period of 5 years). Net-costs for patients aged 60 or more years were 8.18 Mio DM. The effectiveness was defined as the number of life years saved and amounted to 216 years of life saved (YOLS) in the overall study group. For patients aged 60 or more years we found that 358 years were saved. The costs per life years saved (i.e. the net-costs of pravastatin therapy divided through the number of life years saved) turned out to be 44,000 DM per person in the study group. For patients over 60 the costs were 23,000 DM. Lipid-lowering with pravastatin in the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease in Germany is cost-effective. In those patients aged 60 or more yeas the use of pravastatin is even more cost-effective than in all patients included in the CARE study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9758309
Insulin resistance is characterized by impaired responsiveness to endogenous or exogenous insulin and often results in the insulin resistance syndrome, a clustering of cardiovascular risk factors that includes abdominal obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, glucose intolerance, and hyperinsulinemia. Although the mechanism responsible for insulin resistance has not been completely defined, it is likely due to defective insulin receptor signaling and results in decreased use of glucose. Troglitazone, the first in a new class of drugs, directly decreases insulin resistance by improving insulin-mediated glucose disposal and reduces plasma insulin concentrations. Glycemic control achieved with troglitazone monotherapy is equivalent to that with sulfonylurea and metformin, and when combined with these agents offers additional plasma glucose reduction. Studies are necessary to determine the effect of thiazolidinediones on morbidity and mortality of patients with type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9759748
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9761083
We performed a multicenter, open-label study to determine the long-term safety and efficacy of a new extended-release once-a-night niacin preparation, Niaspan, in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. Niaspan, 0.5 to 3.0 g once a night at bedtime, was used alone or in combination with a statin (inhibitor of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase), a bile acid sequestrant, or both. Patients included 269 hypercholesterolemic male and female adults enrolled in a 96-week study, and 230 additional adults for whom short-term safety data were available. The dosages of Niaspan attained by 269 patients were 1,000 mg (95% of patients), 1,500 mg (86%), and 2,000 mg (65%). After 48 weeks of treatment, Niaspan alone (median dose 2,000 mg) reduced low-density lipaprotein (LDL) cholesterol (18%), apolipoprotein B (15%), total cholesterol (11%), triglycerides (24%), and lipoprotein(a) (36%), and increased high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (29%). Niaspan plus a statin lowered LDL cholesterol (32%), apolipoprotein B (26%), total cholesterol (23%), triglycerides (30%), and lipoprotein(a) (19%), and increased HDL cholesterol (26%). Reversible elevations of aspartate aminotransferase or alanine aminotransferase more than twice the normal range occurred in 2.6% of patients. One patient discontinued Niaspan because of transaminase elevations. Intolerance to flushing, leading to discontinuation of Niaspan, occurred in 4.8% of patients. The overall rate of discontinuance due to flushing in this study combined with 2 previous randomized trials was 7.3%. In the long-term treatment of hypercholesterolemia, Niaspan produced favorable changes in LDL and HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and lipoprotein(a). Adverse hepatic effects were minor and occurred at rates similar to those reported for statin therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9762380
To review and update the incidence, mechanism, and clinical relevance of drug interactions with itraconazole, ketoconazole, and fluconazole.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9763118
Vasomotor tone is the end result of a complex set of interactions that control relaxation and contraction of blood vessels. The critical role of nitric oxide (NO) in modulating vasomotor tone has become increasingly apparent over the last 15 years. A phenomenal amount of resources have been invested in the study of this simple molecule, and the volume of scientific literature that has resulted is astounding. In this review, we discuss the pertinent physiology and biochemistry of NO as it relates to the control of vasomotor tone. Methods of measuring NO in basic science and clinical settings are outlined, and the derangements of endothelial NO production and release (endothelial dysfunction) in pathophysiologic and disease states are discussed. Finally, potential therapies aimed at preserving endothelial function and augmenting NO production also are reviewed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9764046
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9766701
The past fifty years of antiarrhythmic drug development have seen limited success in prolonging life and reducing morbidity. It is likely that arrhythmias are in most instances final common pathways through which changes in the cardiac substrate and in trigger mechanisms are expressed. We propose that the development and administration of therapies for the arrhythmias themselves, while offering a panacea for a disease entity that has evolved and is being overtly manifested, is also an admission of failure to identify and prevent evolution of the substrate and triggers such that arrhythmias can occur. We suggest that while strategies for treatment and prevention of recurrence of arrhythmias still warrant exploration, greater hope for the future lies in identifying means for earlier diagnosis of the arrhythmogenic substrate and triggers, and in developing therapies that are "upstream" to the arrhythmia and prevent their initial expression. Means to achieve this end are suggested, using specific arrhythmias as examples. Similarly, to increase the likelihood that clinical studies of new therapies can be successfully concluded and interpreted, we suggest new approaches to patient selection, risk stratification, trial endpoints, outcome events and trial methodologies.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9767373
Familial hypercholesterolaemia, an autosomal co-dominant disorder caused by defects in the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene, is strongly associated with premature development of cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9773745
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9777289
Abnormal interaction between low density lipoprotein receptors (LDLR) and their ligands, apolipoprotein E and B, causes decreased catabolism of lipoproteins which carry these apolipoproteins (VLDL, IDL and/or LDL) and thereby increased plasma concentrations of these. In familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), abnormal interaction is due to mutations in the LDLR gene, and in type III hyperlipidemia due to mutations in the apo E gene. A few mutations in the apolipoprotein B (apo B) gene have been described, of which the apo B-3,500Arg-Gln seems by far the most frequent, that causes defective binding to normal LDLR. The metabolic disorder associated with these mutations has been named familial defective apolipoprotein B-100 (FDB). The frequency of the apo B-3,500Arg-Gln mutation is particularly high in Central Europe (Switzerland) with lower frequencies south of the Alpes, in Russia and in Scandinavia. We found an incidence of 1/1250 of the mutation in Denmark (III), employing a DNA based assay optimized to allow detection of the mutation in very small amounts of DNA (I). Since other mutations in the receptor binding domain of the apo B-100 have been described, we developed another DNA based assay, employing DGGE technique, to screen for other mutations in the region of amino acid 3,456 to 3,553 (II). However, no other mutations but the apo B-3,500Arg-Gln have so far been detected in Danish hypercholesterolemic patients. In a study of 5 Danish families with FDB (46 heterozygous FDB patients and 57 unaffected relatives) we found that FDB patients had significantly increased mean cholesterol and LDL cholesterol concentrations, but with a wide range of variation and with approximately 30% having cholesterol concentrations below the 95th percentile for the general population (IV). This was confirmed in a compilation of data on 205 FDB patients from the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark (V). In this study we also compared the biochemical and clinical features of FDB with those of 101 Danish FH patients in whome FDB had been ruled out. Our data support, that the LDL cholesterol elevation is less pronounced in FDB than in FH and that the age-specific prevalence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD) is lower in FDB than in FH. In the compiled study of 205 FDB heterozygotes (V), we found that age, gender and genetic variation in the LDLR gene explained a considerable part of the between-individual variation in total and LDL cholesterol. We conducted a prospective study of the lipid lowering effect of pravastatin and gemfibrozil in 30 Danish FDB patients (VI). Together with other, retrospective, studies, we conclude that the cholesterol lowering effect of HMG-coA-reductase inhibitors, anion binding resins and nicotinic acid is fully comparable to that observed when treating FH patients and type IIa hypercholesterolemic patients, without clinical signs of FH.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9778197
Cardiovascular disease, including coronary heart disease, is the leading cause of death both in men and in women in the United States. The purpose of this review is to describe the effectiveness of lipid-lowering therapy in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, which has recently been extended to patients with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia, and the cost of providing therapy, which would be prohibitive if all persons with hypercholesterolemia received treatment. Cost-effectiveness analysis provides a rational means of allocating limited health care resources by allowing the comparison of the costs of lipid-lowering therapy, in particular, therapy with beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl-CoA (coenzyme A) reductase inhibitors (statins), with the costs of atherosclerosis that could be prevented by lowering cholesterol. To extend the benefits of treatment to the large number of persons not receiving therapy, we need to implement more cost-effective treatment by improving risk assessment, increasing treatment effectiveness, and reducing the cost of therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9783644
HMG reductase inhibitors have significant desirable effects on patients with dyslipidemia. Multiple factors are involved in these desirable effects. Other factors that might play a role in the risk of coronary artery disease are fibrinogen concentration, homocysteine, Lp (a), small dense LDL, insulin resistance, and infection with chlamydia. High-dose reductase inhibitors may be indicated in select patients. The ideal end point may be 150 mg/dL for adults.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9784451
To explore how general practitioners have accessed and evaluated evidence from trials on the use of statin lipid lowering drugs and incorporated this evidence into their practice. To draw out the practical implications of this study for strategies to integrate clinical evidence into general medical practice.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9784452
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9787748
The increased risk of coronary artery disease in subjects with diabetes mellitus can be partially explained by the lipoprotein abnormalities associated with diabetes mellitus. Hypertriglyceridemia and low levels of high-density lipoprotein are the most common lipid abnormalities. In type 1 diabetes mellitus, these abnormalities can usually be reversed with glycemic control. In contrast, in type 2 diabetes mellitus, although lipid values improve, abnormalities commonly persist even after optimal glycemic control has been achieved. Screening for dyslipidemia is recommended in subjects with diabetes mellitus. A goal of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol of less than 130 mg/dL and triglycerides lower than 200 mg/dL should be sought. Several secondary prevention trials, which included subjects with diabetes, have demonstrated the effectiveness of lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in preventing death from coronary artery disease. The benefit of lowering triglycerides is less clear. Initial approaches to lowering the levels of lipids in subjects with diabetes mellitus should include glycemic control, diet, weight loss, and exercise. When goals are not met, the most common drugs used are hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors or fibrates.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9790411
Aggressive cholesterol lowering with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy has contributed to the substantial decrease in coronary heart disease (CHD) morbidity and mortality in recent years, as documented in a number of controlled clinical trials in both primary- and secondary-prevention patients. Although benefit was first established in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia, more recent trials have extended the benefit to patients with mildly to moderately elevated cholesterol. In addition to improvements on the lipid profile, statins appear to confer nonlipid benefits, such as improved endothelial function, modification of plaque cellularity, and plaque stabilization.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9790412
The Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) guidelines, published initially in 1988 and revised in 1993, are based on sentinel observations and early clinical trials in support of treating and preventing coronary artery disease by cholesterol lowering. With the conclusion of several large long-term trials using HMG CoA reductase inhibitors for primary and secondary coronary prevention, the ATP II recommendations, which remain remarkably accurate, can be supplemented with more evidence-based strategies. Increasing evidence suggests that thoughtful lipid management for coronary prevention should include a more complete assessment of lipoproteins with an emphasis on apolipoproteins, triglycerides, and very low-density (VLDL) remnant particles, LDL particle size, and lipoprotein(a). This review summarizes clinically relevant lipid metabolism with an emphasis on the concept of atherogenic plasma lipids, discusses the clinical benefits and specific uses of each of the lipid-lowering drug classes, and provides an analysis of recent cholesterol-lowering primary and secondary coronary prevention trials from which a new treatment strategy can be derived.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9790415
Because patients with low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (HDL-C) are at high risk for clinical coronary artery disease (CAD) events, these patients require aggressive treatment with lifestyle modifications-increased exercise, smoking cessation, and weight loss in overweight patients-and available pharmacological agents. Drugs that raise HDL-C include nicotinic acid, fibric acid derivatives, estrogens, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), alpha-blockers, and alcohol. However, all agents that increase HDL-C may not have the same clinical benefit, just as, as shown in genetic studies in humans and mice, genetic causes of high HDL-C do not always protect against CAD, nor do genetic causes of low HDL-C always increase risk for CAD. Better understanding of the complexities of HDL metabolism and the mechanisms by which HDL protects against CAD is needed to enable the development of new therapeutic strategies--novel drugs or gene delivery systems--to increase HDL-C and reduce CAD events. The statins are the agents with the greatest evidence for slowing progression of CAD and reducing clinical events in patients with low HDL-C, but additional research is needed to determine the potential benefits of additional interventions that increase HDL-C, including combination therapy, which may provide greater improvements in the entire lipid profile.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9792257
To evaluate long-term responses to cholesterol-lowering diets in usual care and their associations with responses to lipid medication.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9793596
To review the efficacy and safety of atorvastatin in the treatment of dyslipidemias.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9801932
We investigated the effect of 12 months' HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor treatment on plasma polyunsaturated fatty acid concentrations in 19 patients with hyperlipidemia. Arachidonic acid concentrations were significantly increased following treatment (from 110.1 +/- 20.4 mg/l to 129.2 +/- 31.6 mg/l, P < 0.05). The ratio of eicosapentaenoic acid to arachidonic acid was significantly decreased at the end of 12 months' treatment (from 0.702 +/- 0.370 to 0.541 +/- 0.204, P < 0.05). These results suggest that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may increase the synthesis of metabolites from arachidonic acid in patients with hyperlipidemia, and that the addition of fish oil is more effective for the prevention of coronary heart disease than HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors alone.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9804052
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (EC 1.1.1.88) inhibitors are the most effective drugs to lower cholesterol in transplant patients. However, immunosuppressants and several other drugs used after organ transplantation are cytochrome P4503A (CYP3A, EC 1.14.14.1) substrates. Pharmacokinetic interaction with some of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, specifically lovastatin and simvastatin, leads to an increased incidence of muscle skeletal toxicity in transplant patients. It is our objective to review the role of drug metabolism and drug interactions of lovastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, atorvastatin, and cerivastatin. In the treatment of transplant patients, from a drug interaction perspective, pravastatin, which is not significantly metabolized by CYP enzymes, and fluvastatin, presumably a CYP2C9 substrate, compare favorably with the other statins for which the major metabolic pathways are catalyzed by CYP3A.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9806100
Recent clinical trials have demonstrated beyond doubt that statins are effective in the prevention of acute coronary events. Critical analysis of these studies suggests that the benefits of statin therapy cannot be fully explained on the basis of reductions in plasma cholesterol levels. Accumulating knowledge of the actions of these drugs shows that they may prevent several processes that eventually lead to plaque rupture and the development of occlusive thrombosis, the basis of acute coronary events. Hence, statins may correct endothelial dysfunction (thus protecting against ischaemic injury), stabilise existing plaques and modify the coagulation pathway, thereby reducing the likelihood of a sudden vascular event. At a cellular level, these drugs inhibit the synthesis not just of cholesterol, but of other compounds important in cell proliferation. Antiproliferative effects have been demonstrated in vitro and may broaden the applications of statins to the treatment of noncardiovascular diseases. Finally, preliminary clinical studies indicate that as a result of immunosuppressive actions, statins may reduce the incidence of rejection following organ transplantation.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9807971
In type 2 diabetes, it is not uncommon to find an elevated serum triglyceride and/or reduced high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels; elevated total cholesterol levels often occur as well. To evaluate the short-term efficacy and tolerability of combination therapy with lovastatin and acipimox in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes who have mixed dyslipidemia, an open-label 6-month trial was conducted. All patients had type 2 diabetes (n = 33) with total cholesterol > or = 6.2 mmol/L and fasting triglyceride > or = 2.8 mmol/L, which had been confirmed twice and persisted for at least 12 weeks after introduction of diet control. After a 4-week run-in period, they were given lovastatin 40 mg daily at night for 12 weeks. Acipimox 250 mg three times a day was then added for a further 12 weeks. After 12 weeks of treatment with lovastatin alone, improvement was observed in total cholesterol (21% reduction), triglyceride (32% reduction), low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (5.5% reduction), HDL cholesterol (11.6% elevation), apolipoprotein A-I (4.6% elevation), and apolipoprotein B (20.5% reduction). The addition of acipimox to lovastatin for an additional 12 weeks further reduced serum total cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B, but this additional decrease was not statistically significant. However, HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I levels were significantly increased by the addition of acipimox (a 14.2% and 9.0% elevation, respectively). Serum creatine phosphokinase increased slightly after 12 weeks of lovastatin but decreased to a concentration similar to baseline after 12 weeks of combination treatment. No patients reported muscle pain or weakness or other side effects. Combination treatment with lovastatin and acipimox appears to be a safe and effective therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes and mixed dyslipidemia, and has particular benefit in elevating serum HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9808592
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9809932
This study sought to compare hormone replacement therapy (HRT), simvastatin and their combination in the management of hypercholesterolemia in postmenopausal women with coronary artery disease (CAD).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9812207
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9812209
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9816194
Lovastatin, an inhibitor of the enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (the major regulatory enzyme of the mevalonate pathway of cholesterol synthesis), displays antitumor activity in experimental models. We therefore conducted a Phase I trial to characterize the tolerability of lovastatin administered at progressively higher doses to cancer patients. From January 1992 to July 1994, 88 patients with solid tumors (median age, 57 +/- 14 years) were treated p.o. with 7-day courses of lovastatin given monthly at doses ranging from 2 to 45 mg/kg/day. The inhibitory effects of lovastatin were monitored through serum concentrations of cholesterol and ubiquinone, two end products of the mevalonate pathway. Concentrations of lovastatin and its active metabolites were also determined, by bioassay, in the serum of selected patients. Cyclical treatment with lovastatin markedly inhibited the mevalonate pathway, evidenced by reductions in both cholesterol and ubiquinone concentrations, by up to 43 and 49% of pretreatment values, respectively. The effect was transient, however, and its magnitude appeared to be dose independent. Drug concentrations reached up to 3.9 micrometer and were in the range associated with antiproliferative activity in vitro. Myopathy was the dose-limiting toxicity. Other toxicities included nausea, diarrhea, and fatigue. Treatment with ubiquinone was associated with reversal of lovastatin-induced myopathy, and its prophylactic administration prevented the development of this toxicity in a cohort of 56 patients. One minor response was documented in a patient with recurrent high-grade glioma. Lovastatin given p.o. at a dose of 25 mg/kg daily for 7 consecutive days is well tolerated. The occurrence of myopathy, the dose-limiting toxicity, can be prevented by ubiquinone supplementation. To improve on the transient inhibitory activity of this dosing regimen on the mevalonate pathway, alternative schedules based on uninterrupted administration of lovastatin should also be studied.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9816550
Regression of atheroma with reduction of cholesterol levels is recognized to occur, but less is known about reversal of sclerosis. Non-invasive indices of sclerosis have largely been based on carotid ultrasound measurements.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9820992
To assess differences in treatment of ischaemic heart disease in the Scandinavian countries.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9822090
The purpose of this study was to evaluate acute angiographic success, in-hospital complications and long-term outcome after intracoronary stenting in patients with cardiac allograft vasculopathy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9822880
Venous graft disease is a thromboproliferative process and places a serious limitation on the symptom-free survival of patients after coronary artery bypass grafting. The efficacy of antithrombotics, especially during the first year after surgery, is suggested by an understanding of the four described phases of disease development. Studies examining the usefulness of hemostatic factors, such as lipoprotein (a) and fibrinogen, in identifying patients at added risk for graft occlusion are reviewed. Aspirin begun within the first day after surgery remains the mainstay of current preventive therapy, but the potential for other antiplatelet agents alone or in combination is explored. In a two-by-two trial, the efficacy of low-dose oral anticoagulation with warfarin (Coumadin) was equivocal. Aggressive cholesterol reduction decreased progression and need for revascularization by 30%. Future examinations are needed to define the optimal intensity and timing of therapy and to explore the role of newer, more potent antithrombotic agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9823789
Many advances in the treatment of acute coronary syndromes have been realized over recent years. In ST elevation myocardial infarction, new aggressive thrombolytic regimens improve early reperfusion and improve survival. The current focus is on bolus thrombolysis, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition, and low-molecular-weight heparin as adjuncts. In unstable angina and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction, two major advances are IIb/IIIa inhibition and low-molecular-weight heparin, each of which significantly improves the outcome of patients and which have just been approved for use by the Food and Drug Administration. Following acute coronary syndromes, cholesterol lowering with statin drugs has a major effect, even in the large group of patients with average cholesterol levels. Use of clopidogrel, a more potent antiplatelet agent than aspirin, appears to decrease recurrent ischemic events, which has highlighted the potential benefits of oral IIb/IIIa inhibitors, which are much more potent antiplatelet agents. An additional focus has been on ensuring that patients actually receive the currently available medications. With a great number of new medical treatments, the outcome of patients with acute coronary syndromes has improved and will continue to improve as we enter the next millennium.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9825949
The use of lipid-altering drugs has been shown to reduce the progression of atherosclerotic lesions and reduce the risk of atherosclerotic events (such as myocardial infarction and stroke). In general, these lipid-altering drugs are well tolerated but there is the potential for drug interactions. For example, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may interact with macrolides, azalides, azole antifungals and cyclosporin. Resins (such as cholestyramine and colestipol) may impair the absorption of many concurrent medications. Fibrates have potential drug interactions with warfarin, furosemide (frusemide), oral hypoglycaemics and probenecid. Nicotinic acid (niacin) may have potential drug interactions with high dose aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), uricosuric agents (such as sulfapyrazone) and alcohol (ethanol). Finally, probucol may have potential drug interactions with antidysrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants and phenothiazines. In addition, lipid-altering drugs, used in combination, may have the potential for drug interactions, enhancing some of the risks of adverse effects, such as myositis and hepatotoxicity. Therefore, in order to use lipid-altering drugs in the most effective, and safest manner, it is important for the clinician to have an understanding of the mechanisms of potential drug interactions, which drug interactions may theoretically occur, and specifically, which spe cific drug interactions have already been described.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9826956
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9826960
The dangers of elevated serum cholesterol levels--and in particular, of increased concentrations of small, dense lipoproteins--have been fully delineated. Although effective therapies are available, too many physicians fail to look for hypercholesterolemia, or fail to treat it effectively. Adhering to therapeutic guidelines and encouraging patient compliance can be lifesaving.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9830386
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9834769
Our study compared use of atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin for lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentration in patients at risk for coronary heart disease (CHD). The goal was to reach the LDL cholesterol levels recommended by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9841303
In patients with coronary heart disease and a broad range of cholesterol levels, cholesterol-lowering therapy reduces the risk of coronary events, but the effects on mortality from coronary heart disease and overall mortality have remained uncertain.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9841599
A majority of all myocardial infarctions occur in patients who are 65 years of age or older and have average cholesterol levels, but little information is available on whether cholesterol lowering in such patients reduces the rate of recurrent cardiovascular disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9842411
Plaque disruption promoted by local inflammation and oxidative stress seem to be the triggering mechanisms of acute coronary syndromes. Oxidized low-density lipoproteins (LDL) play a key role in this inflammatory process. Within the inflammatory region, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) accumulation has been described, leading to enhanced production of local angiotensin II which stimulates adhesion molecule expression and increases oxidative stress (leading to excessive degradation of EDNO). According to recent clinical trials, drugs like statins or ACE inhibitors seem promising and could stabilize the plaque, probably by attenuation of the inflammatory process. Finally, as thrombus formation also plays a role in these acute coronary syndromes, another approach may be the use of antithrombotic therapy.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9843456
Although diabetes is a major risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD), little information is available on the effects of lipid lowering in diabetic patients. We determined whether lipid-lowering treatment with pravastatin prevents recurrent cardiovascular events in diabetic patients with CHD and average cholesterol levels.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9845852
To evaluate the effect of diet and drug intervention separately and combined in the treatment of primary hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9851392
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9852713
Acipimox, a derivative of nicotinic acid, lowers serum lipid levels by reducing the production of very-low-density and low-density lipoproteins (LDL).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9856659
Malignant gliomas are thought to be highly dependent on the mevalonate pathway for cell growth. Lovastatin, a cholesterol-lowering drug, inhibits not only the rate-limiting step in the mevalonate pathway (hepatic hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase), but also the prenylation of several key regulatory proteins including ras and the small guanosine triphosphate binding proteins. Therefore, from August 1994 through March 1996, 18 patients with either anaplastic glioma or glioblastoma multiforme were entered into a trial testing the safety of high-dose lovastatin with or without radiation. Although the response data is too premature to evaluate activity, the fact that high doses of lovastatin are well tolerated with concurrent radiation suggests that central nervous system toxicity will not be a significant limiting toxicity as more selective farnesyltransferase inhibitors are brought into the clinic as radiation sensitizers.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9856919
Currently, 6 hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) are marketed in the United States (US). Given the wide variation in the prices and efficacy of statins, formal cost-effectiveness analysis may improve drug selection decisions. To assess the cost-effectiveness of statin therapy in primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, we developed a model of the costs and consequences of lipid-regulating therapy and estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness of 5 statins (atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin) at usual starting doses versus no therapy. Drug effects on serum lipids were assessed using data approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for product labeling. Annual risks of coronary event occurrence were estimated using Framingham Heart Study coronary risk equations developed for use in this model. Current estimates of direct medical costs of coronary heart disease were used to assign costs to health states and acute coronary events. Main outcome measurements were net cost (statin therapy minus savings in coronary heart disease treatment), gain in life expectancy, and cost per life-year saved. The maximum gain in life expectancy was achieved with atorvastatin, which also had a lower net cost than lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin. Compared with fluvastatin, atorvastatin's greater effectiveness is attained at a lower cost per life-year saved. The cost-effectiveness of HMG-CoA reductase inhibition in primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease has been improved with the introduction of atorvastatin.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9859160
The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (known as statins) have been shown to reduce morbi-mortality of vascular origin, including transitory ischemic accidents and cerebral infarcts, in a large group of patients. The implications, both clinical and of costs, oblige us to consider analysis of the existing evidence and the answers to a number of questions arising in a field which has not yet received much attention from neurologists.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9861520
Coronary heart disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the elderly, a rapidly growing section of the population. Elderly patients have been excluded from most preventative risk factor trials.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9863541
Subjects with hypercholesterolaemia (HC) have increased fasting cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) activity and accelerated cholesteryl ester transfer (CET) from HDL to apo B-containing lipoproteins. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of postprandial lipaemia and pravastatin treatment on plasma triglycerides (TG) and CETP activity and on CET and LDL Stokes' diameter in primary HC (n = 19, total cholesterol > or =6.5, LDL-cholesterol > or =4.5, TG <4.0 mmol/l). Samples were collected fasting and 6 h after an oral fat load (0.88 g/kg body weight) after 6 weeks therapy with placebo or pravastatin 40 mg nocte according to a double-blind randomized cross-over study. Apart from significant reductions in plasma total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol apo B and TG. pravastatin significantly reduced CETP activity in both the fasting (mean +/- SD, 37.9+/-12.2 to 32.0+/-10.3 nmol/ml plasma per h) and postprandial state (35.5+/-11.3 to 31.3+/-9.5 nmol/ml plasma per h) compared to equivalent placebo phases. CETP activity did not change during postprandial lipaemia despite a significant 45-55% increase in CET to triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRL) of d <1.006 g/ml. LDL Stokes' diameter was unchanged postprandially or by pravastatin. The mass of TRL was the strongest contributor to variation in CET in both fasting and postprandial plasma, accounting for at least 77% of the variance of CET. Postprandial TRL-TG was the strongest contributor to variation in fasting LDL Stokes' diameter in untreated HC (54%) whilst HDL-cholesterol was the strongest fasting contributor to variation (45%) for placebo- and pravastatin-treated HC. We conclude that pravastatin may reduce the atherogenicity of the lipoprotein profile in HC by reducing CETP activity. Furthermore, CET is strongly influenced by postprandial lipaemia which may have a cumulative effect on LDL size.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9868585
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9868591
Most probably the decennia of the 1990s will be called the 'statin decennia' in the history of coronary heart disease prevention. Statins are effective, both in primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, in middle-aged and older (< 76 years) men and women, in both diabetics and non-diabetics with coronary heart disease. Statins used in secondary prevention of coronary heart disease significantly reduce the risk of stroke. They also reduce daily attacks of myocardial ischemia. Pathogenetic pathways leading to 'biological plausibilities' of the statins favourable effects are multiple, which explains their rapid (less than 1 year) influence on coronary events. Until the results from new event trials become available, fibrates have very few indications as first line drug therapy in dyslipidemia. They should be considered in combined therapy with statins. The scientific evidence with statins is overwhelming and the question is no longer 'who should we treat?' but 'who can society afford to treat?'. Health economics are indeed pivotal in the use of statins and public health authorities have to find answers according to their resources or innovative strategies, including new aspects in dietary advice (the 'Mediterranean diet'?).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9869855
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9874052
Data regarding the effects of plasma lipid lowering on the evolution of thoracic aortic atherosclerosis (TAA) are scarce. In this study, we performed transesophageal echocardiography to characterize TAA in 16 newly diagnosed patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia and to follow its evolution after 2 years of statin treatment. TAA was graded as follows: grade I = normal intima; grade II = increased intimal echo density without thickening; grade IIIA = increased intimal echo density with single atheromatous plaque < or = 3 mm; grade IIIB = multiple plaques < or = 3mm; grade IV = > or = 1 plaque >3 mm; and grade V = mobile or ulcerated plaques. Baseline aortic intimal morphology was grade I in one patient, grade II in 4, grade IIIA in 6, grade IIIB in 3, and grade IV in 2 patients. Hypolipidemic treatment resulted in significant reductions in plasma total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Follow-up aortic morphology was grade I in 5 patients, grade II in 2, grade IIIA in 3, grade IIIB in 3, and grade IV in 3 patients. TAA remained stable in 7 patients, progressed in 3, and regressed in 6 patients. TAA evolved in a uniform manner in the ascending aorta, aortic arch, and descending aorta. Patients with TAA regression were younger (39+/-14 vs 52+/-8 years, p=0.038) and had a greater decrease in plasma LDL cholesterol as a result of treatment (138+/-56 vs 73+/-55 mg/dl, p=0.036) than patients with TAA stability or progression. These observations support the hypothesis that hypolipidemic treatment may favorably affect the course of TAA in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9879865
In each of the first three decades of myocardial revascularization, conventional treatment has been revised completely. This lecture comments on three areas of discovery that have shaped the evolution of myocardial revascularization: science, technology development, and revascularization. The discoveries in all three areas are inexorably interrelated. The single greatest lesson learned so far is that conduit performance carries more prognostic weight than any other factor. We have observed that vein graft atherosclerosis is predictable, and that the first-generation lipid lowering drugs have a favorable effect in patients who achieve marked LDL reduction. Biologically better revascularization begins with use of the internal thoracic artery for grafting to the anterior descending coronary artery. As the results of internal thoracic artery grafting are widely reported, arterial bypass revascularization has expanded, notably by radial and gastroepiploic arteries. The results of bilateral internal thoracic artery grafting are discussed, including large-scale registry results of internal thoracic artery usage in the United States. The internal thoracic artery is significantly underutilized. Diabetes affects both endoluminal and surgical revascularization. The new pharmacology in cardiology interventions shows promise in diminishing restenosis and thrombosis even in diabetic patients. Conversely, extended internal thoracic artery grafting may also benefit diabetic patients. Now we are entering a new age of minimally invasive coronary surgery. We have passed through the early stages of mini-thoracotomy, and we are moving on to access through 1-cm ports, intrathoracic cannulation, antegrade and retrograde myocardial protection, and computer guided three-dimensional vision and instrumentation. The potential for robotic control adds greater precision, ease of use, and safety. This new technology will be integrated with diagnostic information, intraoperative monitoring, anesthesia and perfusion data, cost accounting, and surgical note transcription. The operating room of the future will package intraoperative information and is adaptable to all surgical specialties. The future of coronary artery surgery will depend on minimally invasive techniques, all-arterial grafting, and selective lipid modification to reduce progressive atherosclerosis. The conclusion of this decade marks the end of the beginning. The new generation of cardiothoracic surgeons will share in an array of technology and research unmatched in previous decades.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9884398
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9884814
Mibefradil, a tetralol derivative, is a new long-acting calcium antagonist used for the treatment of patients with hypertension and chronic stable angina pectoris. The drug is virtually completely metabolised, with less than 3% of an oral dose excreted unchanged in urine. Its metabolism occurs via parallel pathways, which fall into 2 broad categories: esterase-catalysed hydrolysis (producing the major plasma metabolite) and cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4-mediated oxidation. Plasma protein binding is greater than 99.5%, predominantly to alpha 1-acid glycoprotein. Oral multiple dose administration of mibefradil 50 or 100 mg once daily is associated with inhibition of the CYP3A4 pathway of metabolism, increasing the half-life and bioavailability of the parent compound. The intensity of the inhibition of CYP similarly results in numerous clinically relevant drug interactions which ultimately motivated the voluntary withdrawal of mibefradil from the market. With multiple oral doses of 50 to 100 mg once daily, the time to maximum plasma concentration was approximately 2.4 hours, absolute bioavailability was around 80%, clearance was 5.7 to 7.5 L/h, oral terminal exponential volume of distribution was 180 L, and terminal exponential half-life was 22 hours (ranging between 17 and 25 hours). A NONMEM sparse data analysis indicated that apparent clearance is not affected by race, gender, age or bodyweight. Renal function does not affect the pharmacokinetics of mibefradil.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9884817
Itraconazole is a new triazole compound with a broad spectrum of activity against a number of fungal pathogens, including Aspergillus species. The drug is being used increasingly as prophylaxis in patients with immunodepression. Itraconazole is highly lipophilic and only ionised at low pH. The absolute availability of capsules in healthy volunteers under fasting conditions is about 55% and is increased after a meal. Itraconazole is 99.8% bound to human plasma proteins and its apparent volume of distribution is about 11 L/kg. The drug is extensively metabolised by the liver. Among the metabolites, hydroxy-itraconazole is of particular interest because its antifungal activity measured in vitro is similar to that of the parent drug and its plasma concentration is 2 to 3 times higher than that of itraconazole. Mean total itraconazole blood clearance determined in healthy volunteers following a single intravenous infusion was 39.6 L/h. After a single oral dose, the terminal elimination half-life of itraconazole is about 24 hours. The drug exhibits a dose-dependent pharmacokinetic behaviour. Renal failure does not affect the pharmacokinetic properties of itraconazole; however, little is known about the effects of hepatic insufficiency. In immunocompromised patients the absorption of itraconazole is affected by gastrointestinal disorders caused by diseases and cytotoxic chemotherapy. The pharmacokinetics of itraconazole may be significantly altered when the drug is coadministered with certain other agents. Itraconazole is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and, thus, can also considerably change the pharmacokinetics of other drugs. Such changes may have clinically relevant consequences. Itraconazole appears to be well tolerated. Gastrointestinal disturbances and dizziness are the most frequently reported adverse effects. Clinical studies in patients with haemotological malignancies suggest that plasma concentrations [measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)] > or = 250 micrograms/L itraconazole, or 750 to 1000 micrograms/L for itraconazole plus hydroxy-itraconazole, are required for effective prophylactic antifungal activity. It seems that a curative effect may be enhanced by ensuring that itraconazole plasma concentrations exceed 500 micrograms/L. The marked intra- and inter-patient variability in the pharmacokinetics of the drug, and the fact that it is impossible to predict steady-state plasma concentrations from the initial dosage are major factors obscuring any clear relationship between dose and plasma concentrations and clinical efficacy. Thus, in patients with life-threatening fungal infections treated with itraconazole drug, plasma concentrations should be regularly monitored to ensure sufficient drug exposure for antifungal activity.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9885777
Historically, a wide range of drugs have been used to treat hyperlipidemias. These include fibrates whose main action is to lower plasma triglycerides; bile-acid sequestering resins introduced to reduce plasma cholesterol; and more recently a family of statins designed to inhibit the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis, HMG-CoA reductase. Early trials employing rather small numbers of subjects with established coronary artery disease (CAD) demonstrated that lipid reduction was often but not always associated with a lowered incidence of clinical end-points, including death and non-fatal myocardial infarction. However, significant angiographic benefit was rarely demonstrated in these investigations. More recent trials based on statins have shown a reduction in clinical events not only in patients with CAD, but also in healthy subjects given these drugs for primary prevention. Differences in design, duration, the role of confounders such as risk factors other than lipids, and the frequently poor correlation between angiographic changes and clinical outcomes are discussed.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9892586
The role of lipid modification in stroke prevention is controversial, although increasing evidence suggests that HMG-CoA reductase inhibition may reduce cerebrovascular events in patients with prevalent coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9893719
The epidemiological studies linking lipid variables and stroke are reviewed. These studies indicate that serum total cholesterol (TC) levels are associated positively with thrombotic and negatively with haemorrhagic strokes. Relationships for other lipid fractions are not as clearly defined. The results of trials with lipid lowering drugs suggest that only statins effectively reduce the incidence of stroke. Differences between trial results may be due to variation in the extent of reduction of TC levels. Possible underlying mechanisms for benefit and the apparent superiority of statins are also discussed. The reduction in the risk of thrombotic stroke with statins is most evident through meta-analyses (p < 0.001) and less impressive in individual trials (p < 0.03). This difference is largely attributable to the small number of events in trials primarily aimed at evaluating ischaemic heart disease (IHD) reduction. This also means that benefit may be limited to those with established IHD. IHD and thrombotic stroke share common risk factors and patients with one condition are at high risk of developing the other. Therefore, one additional reason for using statins in these patients is that these drugs can effectively prevent IHD-related events including deaths.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9894706
There are clear benefits in treating hypercholesterolaemia in patients with ischaemic heart disease, especially those with previous myocardial infarction. Following publication of trial evidence and treatment guidelines for hypercholesterolaemia, we investigated the current practice of the management of hypercholesterolaemia in patients with coronary artery disease referred for coronary angiography by general physicians. We prospectively reviewed 156 consecutive patients (117 men; mean age 61.5+/-9.6 [S.D.] years) with a history of angina pectoris who attended the day case unit for coronary angiography in a 10 week period. Nearly a tenth of these patients had not been screened for hypercholesterolaemia in this study. Of those patients with a cholesterol level > or =5.5 mmol/l, almost a quarter were not on a statin or any other cholesterol-lowering therapy. Continued effort should be given to the screening and effective management of hypercholesterolaemia in patients with coronary artery disease.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9917082
To evaluate 24-hour blood pressure control and frequency of adverse effects in patients with mild to moderate hypertension switched from nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (Nif-GITS) to nifedipine coat core (Nif-CC).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9917116
Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) is a common disorder associated with early coronary artery disease, especially in men. The age at which drug therapy should be started is still controversial, as is the use of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins).

Abstract for pubmed ID 9918521
Lipoproteins affect endothelium-dependent vasomotor responsiveness. Because lipoprotein effects of estrogen and cholesterol-lowering therapies differ, we studied the vascular responses to these therapies in hypercholesterolemic postmenopausal women.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9920511
Clinical management of heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia is largely based on evidence from a small number of observational studies and extrapolation from the results of clinical trials of lipid-lowering in patients with polygenic hypercholesterolaemia The objectives of this study were (i) to determine the absolute and relative mortality of patients with treated heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia, (ii) to estimate the effect of changes in treatment efficacy on mortality trends over time, and (iii) to examine the implications of these findings for patient management. A cohort of 605 men and 580 women aged 20-79 years with heterozyous familial hypercholesterolaemia were recruited from 21 out-patient lipid clinics in the UK. Patients were followed prospectively from 1980 to 1995 for 8770 person-years. Absolute mortality was calculated, and relative risk was expressed as the ratio of the number of observed deaths to the number expected in the general population of England and Wales. Forty six of the 73 deaths were due to coronary heart disease. In women aged 20-39, despite treatment, the relative risk of a fatal coronary event was increased 125-fold (95% confidence intervals 15-451) and the annual coronary mortality was 0.17%. In men aged 20-39 the relative risk was increased 48-fold (17-105) and the annual coronary mortality was 0.46%. The relative risk decreased with age but the absolute risk increased. For men and women aged 60-79, the annual coronary mortality was 1.1% representing a significant excess mortality for women (relative risk 2.6, 1.3-4.5) but not for men (RR 1.1, 0.5-2.3). Non-coronary mortality was not increased at any age (RR for all ages 0.68, 0.45-0.99). There was a decline in the relative risk for coronary mortality in patients aged 20-59 from an eight-fold (4.8-7.2) increased risk before 1992 to 3.7 (1.6-7.2.) thereafter (P=0.08). The results suggest that the prognosis for patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia has improved with the introduction of more effective treatment, and that lipid-lowering therapy is not associated with increased non-coronary mortality. These findings and the excess coronary mortality observed suggest that all affected adult men and post-menopausal women should be treated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9922713
Fluvastatin (FV) is a highly potent inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase. Recently, its antioxidant effect caused by inhibiting the formation of low density lipoproteins (LDL) in vitro has been reported. In this study, we reported the antioxidant effects of FV and its major metabolites in human (M-2, M-3, M-4, M-5, and M-7) on lipid peroxidation using rat liver microsomes. The extent of NADPH-induced microsomal (Ms) lipid peroxidation was determined by the thiobarbituric acid (TBA) assay. The antioxidant effect of each compound was shown as the percentage of inhibition on the formation of TBA reactive substances (TBARS) against the vehicle control. Probucol (PR), a potent antioxidant drug, was used as a reference control. The concentration of each compound in this experiment was set at 0.1 mM (final conc.). FV inhibited the formation of TBARS by 30 to 60% without depending on the used Ms concentrations (0.025-0.2 mg protein/ml). The antioxidant effects of M-2, M-3, and M-5 were comparable to that of FV at low Ms concentrations. At the highest Ms concentration, however, the antioxidant effects of these metabolites were considerably higher than that of FV. Inhibition of the formation of TBARS by M-4 or M-7 was approximately 30% of the control and independent of the used Ms concentrations. The antioxidant effect of PR was comparable to those of M-2, M-3, and M-5 in this study. Pravastatin (PV), a potent inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, reduced the formation of TBARS around 20% at 0.25 or 0.5 mg protein/ml of Ms concentrations. But the value of percentage of inhibition was around 5% at 0.1 or 0.2 mg protein/ml of Ms concentrations. In conclusion, the antioxidant effects of FV, M-2, M-3, and M-5 were found to be comparable to that of PR.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9923885
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9927392
Lipid-lowering therapy can improve endothelial function in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and hypercholesterolemia. Little is known about induced changes in myocardial microcirculation. This study prospectively investigated the temporal effects of lipid-lowering therapy with fluvastatin on coronary flow and flow reserve (CFR) in patients with CAD assessed by PET.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9928746
Hypertension has become a major cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in both the developed and the developing nations. In a cross-sectional study we assessed the state of blood pressure (BP) control and the pattern of target organ complications in 198 Sudanese patients treated in a teaching hospital in Kassala town in Eastern Sudan, (mean age 53 years, 76% women). Excellent BP control (BP <140/90 mm Hg) was achieved in 46% of the patients. Stage 2 or Stage 3 target organ involvement, particularly albuminuria and ischaemic heart disease, were detected in one-third of the patients. These complications were found to be related to both the severity and the duration of hypertension as well as to the frequency of cigarette smoking. Factors such as poor compliance, adverse socioeconomic status, as well as obesity and cigarette smoking may account for poor BP control and hence the development of hypertensive complications. We conclude that optimal BP control is not yet achieved in the majority of hypertensives in the Sudan. Reasons for this failure should be identified and corrected in order to avoid hypertensive target organ damage.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9929747
Clinical evaluation of therapies for patient care has evolved during the twentieth century from a variety of scientific methods. As a result of medical, political, and economic changes that occurred in the 1990s, randomized clinical trials and evidence-based methods are presently in the forefront of the physician's thinking in the decision-making process for therapeutic interventions. A new standard of patient care has emerged during this process. This report provides a clinician's viewpoint of the importance and interpretation of evidence-based methods and suggests a strategy when such evidence does not exist.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9929751
Combined HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor and fibric acid derivative therapy is often necessary for the effective reduction of concentrations of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides in patients with mixed hyperlipidemia; however, the potential risk of myopathy has limited the use of these agents.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9932614
Stroke is the third leading cause of death and the leading cause of chronic disability in the United States. In the past several decades, case series, case-control studies, and prospective cohort studies have successfully identified nonmodifiable risk markers for stroke, such as age, gender, race, ethnicity, heredity and several well-established modifiable risk factors for ischemic stroke. Hypertension, atrial fibrillation, other cardiac diseases, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, cigarette smoking, physical inactivity, carotid stenosis, and transient ischemic attack (TIA) are all potentially treatable conditions that predispose to stroke. Research on other putative stroke risk factors-including antiphospholipid antibodies, elevated homocysteine, alcohol, inflammation, and infection-is ongoing. Controlled trials have shown that stroke risk can be reduced by blood-pressure control, lipid-lowering agents, surgery for carotid stenosis, warfarin for atrial fibrillation, and antiplatelet agents. It is hoped that an improved understanding of stroke risk factors will reduce the future burden of stroke.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9935018
We sought to assess the influence of baseline lipid levels on coronary event rates and the effectiveness of pravastatin therapy in the Cholesterol And Recurrent Events (CARE) study.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9949762
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9972199
To access the current lipid management of late survivors of acute myocardial infarction.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9987704
Forty-six adult patients maintained on warfarin therapy were converted from pravastatin to simvastatin. Mean international normalized ratio (INR) significantly increased from 2.42 to 2.74, p = 0.002. Although warfarin doses were reduced in 7 patients and increased in 4 patients following the post-conversion INR measurements, the pre- and postconversion median weekly warfarin dose of all 46 patients did not differ significantly. The number of patients with an INR > 3.0 increased significantly from 6 to 16 following the conversion. There was no report of unusual episodes of bleeding. The results indicate that antihyperlipidemic therapy can be changed safely from pravastatin to simvastatin in patients who are taking warfarin concomitantly. Additional anticoagulation monitoring is not necessary in institutions where patients are followed in formal anticoagulation clinics.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9988300
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9988781
Squalene, an isoprenoid compound structurally similar to beta-carotene, is an intermediate metabolite in the synthesis of cholesterol. In humans, about 60 percent of dietary squalene is absorbed. It is transported in serum generally in association with very low density lipoproteins and is distributed ubiquitously in human tissues, with the greatest concentration in the skin, where it is one of the major components of skin surface lipids. Squalene is not very susceptible to peroxidation and appears to function in the skin as a quencher of singlet oxygen, protecting human skin surface from lipid peroxidation due to exposure to UV and other sources of ionizing radiation. Supplementation of squalene to mice has resulted in marked increases in cellular and non-specific immune functions in a dose-dependent manner. Squalene may also act as a "sink" for highly lipophilic xenobiotics. Since it is a nonpolar substance, it has a higher affinity for un-ionized drugs. In animals, supplementation of the diet with squalene can reduce cholesterol and triglyceride levels. In humans, squalene might be a useful addition to potentiate the effects of some cholesterol-lowering drugs. The primary therapeutic use of squalene currently is as an adjunctive therapy in a variety of cancers. Although epidemiological, experimental and animal evidence suggests anti-cancer properties, to date no human trials have been conducted to verify the role this nutrient might have in cancer therapy regimens.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9989373
We have studied the effects of two cholesterol-lowering medications, lovastatin and pravastatin, on different sleep parameters in hypercholesterolemic subjects. These medications are 3-hydroxy-methylglutaryl coenzyme A inhibitors. Only subjects who had complained of sleep disturbance while on previous treatment with lovastatin were enrolled. Sixteen subjects (11 men and 5 women) underwent a randomized, double-blind, three-way crossover treatment with lovastatin, pravastatin, and placebo. Each phase of the study lasted 4 weeks. A placebo wash-out period of 4 weeks separated each treatment phase. At the end of each treatment phase, subjects were admitted to the sleep laboratory for 2 consecutive nights. No statistical differences were detected during treatment with lovastatin, pravastatin, and placebo for sleep parameters such as total sleep time, total awake time, wake time after sleep onset, efficiency of sleep, and percent of different phases of sleep. Our study suggests that lovastatin and pravastatin do not have a significant effect on sleep parameters in hypercholesterolemic subjects that could explain their complaints of insomnia. Nevertheless, the subjects did have moderate sleep disturbances that could account for insomnia and most likely predate the use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9989597
In the present study, we assessed the strongest determinants of plasma coenzyme Q10 (Qm10) in 518 men and women (aged 45-70 years) with a stepwise multivariate regression model. Male gender (P<0.001), serum cholesterol (P<0.001), serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (P<0.001), serum triglycerides (P< 0.001), age (P=0.017) and 4-day alcohol consumption (P=0.03) were the most important factors which were directly associated with plasma Q10). The intensity of conditioning exercise (P=0.03) and use of statins (P<0.05) showed an inverse association with plasma Q10. None of the assessed nutrients increased plasma Q10 levels significantly. Our results suggest that many confounding factors, in addition to serum cholesterol and triglycerides, should be taken into account when the role of plasma Q10 is examined in epidemiological research.

Abstract for pubmed ID 9989677
KeyError: 'Abstract'

Abstract for pubmed ID 9989957
BACKGROUND--Patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) commonly have low HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) and mildly elevated LDL cholesterol (LDL-C), leading to uncertainty as to whether the appropriate goal of therapy should be lowering LDL-C or raising HDL-C. METHODS AND RESULTS--Patients in the Lipoprotein and Coronary Atherosclerosis Study (LCAS) had mildly to moderately elevated LDL-C; many also had low HDL-C, providing an opportunity to compare angiographic progression and the benefits of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor fluvastatin in patients with low versus patients with higher HDL-C. Of the 339 patients with biochemical and angiographic data, 68 had baseline HDL-C <0.91 mmol/L (35 mg/dL), mean 0.82+/-0.06 mmol/L (31. 7+/-2.2 mg/dL), versus 1.23+/-0.29 mmol/L (47.4+/-11.2 mg/dL) in patients with baseline HDL-C >/=0.91 mmol/L. Among patients on placebo, those with low HDL-C had significantly more angiographic progression than those with higher HDL-C. Fluvastatin significantly reduced progression among low-HDL-C patients: 0.065+/-0.036 mm versus 0.274+/-0.045 mm in placebo patients (P=0.0004); respective minimum lumen diameter decreases among higher-HDL-C patients were 0. 036+/-0.021 mm and 0.083+/-0.019 mm (P=0.09). The treatment effect of fluvastatin on minimum lumen diameter change was significantly greater among low-HDL-C patients than among higher-HDL-C patients (P=0.01); among low-HDL-C patients, fluvastatin patients had improved event-free survival compared with placebo patients. CONCLUSIONS--Although the predominant lipid-modifying effect of fluvastatin is to decrease LDL-C, patients with low HDL-C received the greatest angiographic and clinical benefit.
